The energy shield of the monolithic hybrid-vessel 'Gigantomachy' on the orbit of Enceladus fluctuated with intense light once more as the continuous barrage of lasers, coil guns, and gravitational missiles hit it with the rage of an angry meteor shower. It was as if the gods themselves had woken up from slumber to smite to the giant from the heavens.
The stealth combat jets from the Sanctums, Corporates, and Evidents flew in between the debris of what was left of the Collective's now destroyed protection fleet. They made for good cover against the counter barrage from Gigantomachy.
The jets made full use of the slow target's various disadvantages as they swivelled around for another round of their endless bombardment. 
"How much longer do you need?"
In the tactical control room of the giant vessel, an aged woman who looked to be around 50 years old— far younger than her actual age, spoke into the comm line, her hands showing just the hint of a tremble as another of her laser shots missed a fighter jet, hitting nothing but its afterimage.
'… hells.'
The only other person in the solitary 2-kilometre diameter vessel spoke back to her, "5… no 10 more minutes. The Octa-core Hydro Annihilator is still calibrating… But almost! Please, try to hang on."
The woman's expression did not show any indication of the apprehension that slithered in her chest, "Copy that. However, I don't think the shield can hold on that much longer—"
CRASH!!
Another violent quake occurred, sending the whole vessel along with the shield trembling like static on an old television screen.
"Are you okay?" The woman asked her partner, who was in a place far more precarious than hers.
"….Ugh, maybe. I think I have a fracture somewhere. I hit the Alpha Logic pretty hard. Let me check if that did any more damage to it."
A few seconds later, the status report came back, showing everything to be still barely working in order. The woman released the breath she did not know she was holding. 
Both the man on the other side of the comm line and the hyper computer Alpha logic were far more important than her right now, considering what they were attempting to do. However, fate had put her in a position where she had to protect them both. Something she seemed to be spectacularly failing at, considering her lacklustre attempt at thwarting the enemy.
Almost none of her shots hit the target. She was too inexperienced to even calibrate the shield in real-time for maximum protection. There had been other people, better people for the task.
But they now lay dead with the debris floating around the E-ring of Saturn.
The woman tasted blood on her tongue and a chill wind on her back, shuddering even though she knew that was an illusion. Her Exo-gear was holding up fine, and the airflow system of the vessel was yet stable.
'There must've been a mole.' She pondered. The enemy had selected the perfect time to attack. By design, the Gigantomachy was not an attack vessel. The weapons installed mainly were either wholly new or experimental upgrades of existing models. Even if the research modules were field-tested more extensively—since the spherical space station was meant to primarily be used for the research of sciences, they could not contribute at all on a battlefield.
That should not have been a problem.
Because although, by protocol, only she and the scientist: her partner, were allowed on board the vessel this week, hence resulting in a severe lack of manpower to gun the weaponry, the heavy fire-power itself was always left to the protection fleet—which had far more practical defence systems.
But alas, sometimes things happened that logic simply could not find any excuses for.
The synchronization of Enceladus's orbit with Dione's, the resultant surge of interference in the E-ring— which was the very thing they had been using to hide this operation so far, and combat crafts with the best stealth humanity had yet seen made the tripartite ambush look like three adults punching and kicking a pre-schooler, which was the Collective protection fleet.
'They were fine people… if only they noticed the enemy even a minute sooner, if only….'
QUAKE!! QUAKE!!
The vessel shook again, its structural frame almost twisting like a twizzler this time. The sparks and the creaks snapped the woman out of her recollection. Around her, many holographic status prompts were floating in mid-air, accompanied by soft pings and red flashing lights. The force field barely had 5% integrity left, and a missile had somehow gotten through it, hitting the western part of the station.
'We don't have time….' She lamented as her hands clenched around the triggers. 'I would rather…no, it doesn't matter in any case.'
3 minutes had passed since she last checked on her partner. But she won't be able to hold on for another 7 minutes as he had requested. So she…
***
In the central part of Gigantomachy, an old man of about 70 years stumbled on a suspended gangway. He was struggling to hold on to the railing, the structure under his feet hanging beside the humungous Octa-core Hydro Annihilator. His fingers twitched because of the strain, even though genetic modification gave him the body and strength of someone two-thirds his age. 
Worst of all, he didn't have the luxury of an Exo gear's protection, unlike his partner.
The interference from the radiation released by the annihilator was too much for delicate electronics. Moreover, the element that the giant device swiftly converted into pure energy inside its annihilation chambers was a theoretical element. One discovered a mere three years ago in the plumes of Enceladus. 
Everything about it was unknown, especially its radiative and interference properties. So only the most general-purpose, nonelectronic forms of radiation protection could survive here.
"Finally," The old man muttered, blood dripping down from his right eye and nostrils, "After almost four decades of lazing around…."
He ignored the worsening injuries as he stared at the data flashing on his tablet device. The squarish brick-like computer was ancient, with century-old circuitry and chips, just like everything else in the spherical warehouse of a room.
"Ouch, that hurts." The old man squinted, holding the side of his belly with a bleeding hand. Yet the twinkle in his eyes was as youthful as a teen's. A laugh inevitably escaped his mouth, which turned into guttural coughs by the second. The fit made him shake left and right on the rickety harness that held his body to the gangway.
Yet his eyes never left the continuous prompts of data.
He had not felt this alive in so many years. All this time, he had been avoiding the world, living away like a hermit. He had vowed to never again be used, never again let his inventions be used while he was left wallowing in fear and rejection.
At least the money from the Single-core Hydro Annihilator had been worth that trouble. He could have lived off of that for a thousand lifetimes and then some. 
'Was it 35 years? No, it was 38; it was the millennium shift of 3000 that I first met her.' He mused. The old man had lived life like trudging along with mud. He thrived in materialism, his spirit was strong, but his faith was broken.
Meeting her had made that so much worse. Fear and anger, quarrels and blames, and everything else hostile in human relationships seemed to sprout like grass after an uninvited spring rain.  Followed by the gentle healing of time, friendship, acceptance, and contentment.
'I thought humanity and life were worthless. Then she showed me there is still worth in them; it's only the two of us who are worthless.' He smiled. 'Yet here I am, feeling disappointed that we are going to die today.'
The notifications on the tablet screen stopped. The final results paused on the screen as if time had stopped. 
'Just as I theorized….'
The world called him a genius—he scoffed, for inventing the Single-core 43 years ago. Nobody knew that it was just one piece of the theoretical puzzle he accidentally crafted. 
At least not until she had practically begged him to share it with the Collective. In her selfish, petty visions of betterment for the world, he was a peace equivalent to the king in chess: his invention, the queen.
A new power source that could theoretically provide 64 times the energy from 8 times less fuel. All they had to do was diversify it.
Now, it was complete, with the final piece extracted from this foreign, water-filled moon on the rings of Saturn.
The old man frowned, 'No… not just the collective.' He thought of the people attacking their very lives right now, 'Apparently, everyone knew. Go figure, farking bureaucracy.'
"Well, no need to think about the negative in life even when I'm gonna die. I still have work to do!" With that cheer as a pep-talk, the old man pulled himself up from his slouching position. 
According to the data, the theory proved to be true. The instruments had performed to their capabilities with only a negligible margin of error. 
Such a wondrous thing! Indeed a new era for everything human civilization signified. Yet it would be all for nought if these results perished with them. 
If they wanted to avoid such an outcome, the Alpha logic hyper computer and the faster-than-light transmitter would need enough juice to fuel a signal powerful enough to break the jamming barrier put up by the enemy. Only then could a data stream be sent home.
His death here might be unavoidable, but his last legacy need not perish. Good thing he had already settled his assets in the event of his demise. So the test result would be the final paragraph added to his will, the will he had written after she persuaded him to pioneer this mission. 
It would also be him repaying back the last of humanity his fickle mind still seemed to trust, with the ultimate work of his life!
'God help me if this is not possible.' The old man slowly made his way to the Octa-core's control panel. He noticed the connection wiring to Alpha Logic heating up to an unnatural blue. However, that was to be expected, as the power source was literally jury-rigged to the hyper computer.
Both machines were over-clocking on all parameters. Yet, they were still not quick enough. Telling by the frequency of the quakes, the shield was likely already broken in places. The Gigantomachy should have taken direct physical damage.
His eyes glossed over the connection one more time, then moved to the progress bar on his tablet. 
'Think! There has to be something we can do!'
The old man's brain was the third thing over-clocking. 'Maybe divert the power of the backup source to the Alpha logic? No, that would take too long. How about I store all of the data inside a secure space probe? Or the harvester probe, which collected the theoretical element from Enceladus? Nah, the chances are too small that the enemy will ignore or miss them. They came prepared and know what we are doing. Can Alpha logic be more efficient in the encryption? What else, what else….'
A beep from the comm line woke him up from his trance, followed by another vicious quake. There was a crunch on the roof of the hall, with debris falling all around. One almost hit him square on the head, him barely dodging to save his life.
'Dammit! Just 4 more minutes!'
 "… We're done; the shield has less than 2.5% integrity remaining. 1 minute at max, maybe? And then it's over." A cold, icy voice spoke from the other side. Only he, who had spent almost 4 decades in that voice's company, could notice the underlying unwillingness.
"I see… So this is it, then? For us, and everything…." He knew her feeling well; he had been wallowing in unwillingness for so long that right now, he only felt regret and not sorrow.
"For us? Yes, I suppose. But there is still one last thing we can try for the transmission."
"What?" The old man perked up.
"The original Single-core. Divert its power to the— "
"Absolutely not! It is powering the force field." He hadn't even deigned to consider that idea before. It was no better than suicide.
"The shield is useless after 1 minute. Dying a minute earlier doesn't really matter if we are to die anyway. Answer me this, my friend, will the power be enough to transmit the package if we include the Single-core's output?"
"…Yes." She was right, he grudgingly admitted.
"Then that's that. It's the only choice we have left." Her icy voice was no more, replaced by a gentle warmth melting her cold front. "You're a smart man. You know we have to do this, don't you?"
"… This isn't fair. I take back what I said earlier. Humans are shitty; we're not the problem."
"Maybe you're right." She chuckled, "I will disable the shield after their next volley. It will give us a short window of time when they re-adjust their armaments, so don't waste it. And…"
She paused, and all he could hear for the next few seconds were static.
"You there?" He asked, his hands already working to execute the plan.
"Yes. I was just thinking. You… Don't you have anything to say to me? This may be your last chance." She laughed.
But he didn't find it funny.
"… I don't…." His hands clenched tight, the nails biting into the fibre gloves—the pain giving him a second of respite to gather his thoughts. 
He, of course, understood what she meant. What she wanted to hear, and what she didn't. "I don't think you will like it, even if I had something to say."
"Understood." There was another quake. The volley had arrived, then passed as soon as it came. "It's time. Are you ready?"
The old man wasn't ready. Life was finally worth living. The last time when he invented the Single-core, it was his own stupidity and the evil of humanity that had ruined the aftermath. This time, it would have been different. He had his best friend by his side and other people he trusted back home. 
This time… "I'm ready. Do it."
"Farewell, my friend."
"Godspeed," he replied.
A few moments later, the power had been completely redirected. Unlike the backup power source, the Single-core had the same frequency as the Octa-cores, so the time it took was far less. 
The Alpha Logic showed an excellent '100%' on its only tiny screen. A cartoon anthropomorphic robotic child modelled after the device danced on the lower-left corner,  signalling a task completed.
But the old man had not the mind to chuckle at it like he had done so many times before. It only reminded if of the cheerful young lad who designed the character: the lad who was now but dust in space.
"Honestly, I really don't want to die. Is that selfish? You all died. So why should we get to live?" He asked no one. The silence didn't reply either. The comm line had long turned off.
He looked at the Octa-core. The old man had no kids of his own, but he raised one devilish imp from a tiny widdle girl all the way till she got married. So he liked kids, more than he found them absolutely suffocating.
And in a way, this power source was his child.
His mind crafted its theory like a parent's guidance; he had to protect it from those who meant it harm. He calmed it down when it threw a tantrum and had to be strict when it would not listen to his words. The culmination of all fathers' work and love in life led to their children. Even if sometimes it was naughty and did something it wasn't supposed to do.
Like right now.
"Wait!" The old man snapped out of nostalgia. The connecting line was glowing a multicoloured but predominantly violet rainbow light. A buzzing hum rang out, and the Alpha-logic module started literally ionizing before his eyes.
"What the fuck!"
That wasn't part of the plan! There should be no multicoloured light emission going on here, at this critical juncture, let alone particle breakdowns!
"Something's wrong… Something's wrong; something is wrong!" He started checking the contraption for faults anyhow he could while screaming into the comm line, even though he knew she could no longer hear him.
The now scared old man found nothing he could fix. According to the logs, after the transmission of the packet finished, energy started flowing backwards from the Alpha logic to the Octa-core as if pure data was being fed into the machine to turn it into… reality.
He slowly backed up, his trembling hands gripping the railing and harness tight as if they could save him. Sweat dripped down uncomfortably, covering his vision, making him realize that somehow, the radiation from the Octa-core had overpowered the cooling system. 
The heat burned. It rose uncontrollably like an inferno. Even the radiation protection suit should be useless with the amount in the hall right now, yet it was not.
But that didn't matter.
The chamber with the theoretical element was self-immolating. The whole contraption was losing cohesiveness.
"This is why you need more testing before over-clocking a hyper-unstable power source that is powering a whole goddamn space station!"
Before his very eyes, the Alpha Logic burst into ionic light and entered the power source.  It didn't stop there, however, as the light seeped into each and every surface of that hall and beyond, including himself.
The last thing he saw, felt, was a million tons of matter turning into pure energy and information; and bursting out in all directions like a supernova.
***
"-ods-e-d" The voice from the other side sizzled in the static of interference, now that the shield wasn't holding the untold jamming and radiation back.
The woman had a blank look on her face, tapping her finger on a metal surface. 
'He never blames anyone, that fool.' 
But she did. She blamed her own naivety, incompetence, and dreams of second chances more than anything.
But it was too late now. 'I shouldn't have pressured him….' 
All the regret she had could only be buried in her aching chest and her soon-to-be-dead self in the vast coffin of space. She heard a painful buzz in the air, making cognitive thinking more difficult.
This time it wasn't an illusion. 
Through the displays, she saw the enemy fighters showing irregular flight motions.
They were scrambling to turn around for one last volley to complete their mission. The enemy had most certainly noticed the disappearance of the shield. Like a pack of wolves finally realizing their prey had bled out and could no longer move. 
She turned her eyes to another of the holograms. It told her that the remaining power of the shield was successfully redirected, and the transmission module was sending out a continuous stream of data straight through the enemy blockade.
As the transmission bar reached completion, the first genuine smile since this fiasco broke out bloomed on her weary face. 
'Mom.' She thought, 'I'm sorry. Your daughter couldn't achieve anything in life, nothing like you or grandpa. No family, no political accolades… no heroic medals, nothing.'
At the final moments of her life, she remembered her long-gone childhood. Her thoughts wandered to a time when she was happier. 
She shook her head, her smile turning to self-derision. 
'No, that's wrong. I've accomplished a few things, at least. I made a friend I could die for and who's dying for me. I saved lives. I am happy. Just a different kind.'
Warmth penetrated her heart as she again thought back, this time on the last few decades of her life, her eyes closed and her smile now satisfied. Some might mock her, that her small achievements were meaningless for someone of her family background. Still, she would disagree with them in a heartbeat.
Her life had been worth it. 
If she could live past this, she would do what both of them were too cowardly to do until now. Her insecurities be damned. She was too old to be bogged down by needless stress. 
Her chest, no, her whole body became warmer and warmer. Lights of salvation breached her eyelids as if to concur with her inner thoughts.
'It's good that he never blamed me. That means I still have a chance. Hesitation will give me nothing but regret. I know what he feels of me; I know what I feel too. I feel' "Hot!" She screamed.
The woman finally realized that the warmth she was feeling wasn't the years of repressed emotions of an unsatisfied woman past her prime gushing out in the face of death. It was something else, coming from deep inside the Gigantomachy.
On the flickering holographic screens, she could see the space crafts of all three rival nations escaping from the vicinity in any direction they could like drugged up migratory birds.
Thousands of communication requests bombarded her displays from the enemies themselves, almost as if they were begging.
"Oh, I get it. Good thinking, my friend. Are we self-destruc———" That was the last thing she uttered before a humongous tide of something swallowed her and every material thing in a ten thousand-kilometre radius, blasting the last bit of her existence to smithereens.  
***
In a vast void overlooked by the infinite universes, two souls travelled towards the unknown. Beneath them was a luminous bridge of light, connecting everything to everywhere.
As their cloudy bodies, the hue of sunshine floated forward, a hazy image of a perfectly spherical park superimposed upon their surroundings. The barking of dogs, chirps of birds, the rustling of leaves, and the laughter of children echoed as if carried by the ether itself.
One of the souls stopped, looking around the void for more things of interest. It was slightly deeper in colour than its companion. The creases on its aura signifying the passage of a greater amount of time.
"Have you ever hated me?" It asked while concentrating intently on what was happening in the illusory image. 
A young mother was chastising a little girl. The girl was crying, her clothes muddy and wet. She was cradling a shivering kitten in her arms, unwilling to let it go.
The mother tried and tried but could not make the girl listen to her words. 
"What is it, all of a sudden?" The other soul replied. It, too, was looking at the image. It saw a man, probably the family's father, hurrying towards them with a towel in one hand and a shopping bag in another. He knelt down beside the girl, gently wiping away all the tears and grime.
He then spoke to her in a more tender tone than his wife, and the girl soon stopped crying. The soul could not understand what was being said but saw the girl carefully handing the kitten over to her father, who then put it inside the bag filled with more towels.
"Just answer me." The first soul pleaded. Its cloudy body slowly turned more transparent as the bridge under them gradually neared a cluster of infinite disc-shaped… stars? 
It saw the scene in the image shift from a park to a cosy little home.
The room looked familiar, somehow. As if the first soul belonged there. 
That tea table, that small shelf, that plastered-up model of the solar system spinning with a gentle glow above the little girl's bed.
The mother quietly pulled up the blanket of stars over the sleeping girl's body and planted a soft kiss on her forehead. The girl squirmed a little, surprising the mother. She then went back to breathing gently, sleep taking her once again. Relief washed over the mother's face as she tiptoed out of the room.
"…Disliked, maybe. Only for some time. But never hated." The second soul replied. It went forward a bit towards the illusion to have a better look. The image showed a study. Or was it a garage, maybe? The room was filled to the brim with this and that. The shelves behind were spilling with sloppily stacked books, while the floor was littered with machine parts and screwdrivers.
The father was covered in dust and soot, building what looked to be a small spaceship-like house. It was too small for a human, though. 
Nevertheless, it felt as warm as a fluffy hug on a winter's night.
"Even though I always blamed you, always so blind to your goodwill? Even if I messed up time and time again? Even if… it's my fault you died?" The first soul sped up, trying to catch the reflection of the mother in the image. 
The mother was jogging in the morning mist. Sweat dripped down from her forehead as she huffed and puffed, finally returning home after a few rounds around the previous park. 
She took out the keys, opening the front door with an electronic click. What greeted her was a tiny meow, bringing a smile to her face. The soul hovered over the kitten, who was now a tad larger. The kitten jumped onto the mother's arms from atop the shoe closet. 
The mother laughed and cooed at the little creature. 
A few moments later, she was sitting in front of a laptop on the sofa. The kitten was nuzzling beside her while chewing on a toy as she typed away on the device. 
Apprehension was visible on her face. She kept deleting and retyping, then deleting again, never satisfied. Whatever she was doing, it wasn't going well.
"It wasn't your fault. It was my choice to go there, for my own purposes. It always was. You just thought you were responsible for me, for whatever imaginary sin you had once committed." The second soul answered, floating gently with none of the haste of the first's.
It watched on as the father yelled inside a large room with a round table in the middle. A meeting, perhaps? 
His left hand held a stack of papers which he slammed on the table, spittle flying from his mouth. But the other participants shook their heads. The father looked like he had a lump in his throat, his shirt damp with sweat even in the air-conditioned office room.
The scene changed.
He was back home sitting on the same sofa that the woman sat on previously. The little girl was on his lap, excitedly talking about something while showing him a crayon drawing. 
The man nodded along her to show he was paying attention, but his eyes betrayed his mood. They were unfocused, glossed over as he mindlessly started at the television. 
The soul could not hear what was being said by the daughter or the television; all it heard was static.
The first soul quietened for a while. It might have been a minute, or it might have been an eternity. The touch of time remained unfelt while they floated along the bridge. 
The scenes around them moved along faster and faster. It showed happy times, sad times, boring times, and exciting times. 
As the bridge neared its end, so did the images. Yet, they got more precise. The audio crisped as the resolution rose. The souls could finally hear what the voices spoke. 
It showed the family of 5, counting the kitten, gathering in the living room watching some program –a new years show—and laughing along. 
The little girl was older by a few years, no longer sporting pigtails. But she was still little enough to sit on her father's lap while clapping along with the presenter on the TV. 
The woman held a toddler in her arms, trying to feed him some cereal with a spoon, but the hyperactive baby would have nothing to do with it.
He wobbled up and down in his mother's arms while giggling, getting the slushy cereal all over his face. The woman hurriedly put the spoon down, taking a napkin to wipe all of that off.
The kitten was now a cat. A cute bell in the shape of a fish hung around its neck. The furry feline kept mewing, rubbing its head on everyone, trying to attract their attention away from whatever they were preoccupied with.
Finally, the first soul spoke, "Thank… you. You know, I—" 
But the souls were no longer there. The one speaking was the woman.
The images had stopped at that exact moment. They had reached the end of the bridge. The illusion was breaking apart.
The man looked around, saying with a smile, "I know, it doesn't matter. Not anymore, at least. By the way…."
"…You are very rude. But yes, go on?"
"What do you think all of this is?" The man scratched his head in awkwardness.
"Some hypothetical unreality, maybe? The manifestation of the afterlife or a higher-dimensional space that souls go to, making everything we ever wanted a reality in whichever manner suits our needs?... I don't really know. Science should be your speciality." The woman answered in a monotone voice. Her hand grasping as the toddler broke apart into nothingness.
"Those are some very vague yet very specific guesses. How do you know?" The man asked again, ruffling the little girl's hair for the very last time. The cat was already gone, only leaving behind the bell, which too dissolved into particles of light.
"Because this is all that I have ever wanted. I realized it just before we died. I wished for us to always be together forever." Came another flat reply. Yet the man was caught off-guard at such straightforwardness. 
He turned his face away, the tip of his fragmenting ears blushing red, "Can you not say such cheesy things at this moment? I'm trying to be serious here. We are possibly experiencing something no sober person has experienced before, okay? It should be a solemn moment, not a date!"
"Isn't it? But I am serious." The woman turned her heated gaze towards him, searching intently for an answer. 
A moment later, when even their bodies began to scatter into plumes revealing two rapidly descending souls towards the cluster of luminous discs, she smiled. 
She had found her answer. 
"Then what about you, mister oh-so-scientific. Suppose the images really were our wishes; what part of it is yours?"
"I don't know. I was never the type to make wishes to shooting stars when I was a kid. But if I were to guess, then it was probably…." The man, the second soul, tried to trudge his way through space closer to the first. The acceleration made it harder, and so did the vertigo he felt.
"I wished we were both alive again."
The first soul giggled like a chime and tightly slammed into the second, sticking to him like the strongest magnet in the universe, never willing to let go. 
Like two binary stars releasing infinite light, the souls broke through the veil of unreality. They made their way into a new reality, one different from their original in endless, inconceivable ways.
The exact moment their ethereal forms blended together, on one of the largest discs of this new universe, two strange babies were born into a local ruling clan.


Chapter 2 - Tethered Twin Stars
“Waaaa!”
A baby cried mournfully as bright waves of light gushed out from its tiny berth for the fourth time that day. 
“Oh dear, not again. The princess is leaking manna!”
“Alwyan, call the Grand Shamanka immediately! This cannot continue, or else I won’t be able to guarantee the heiress’s health!”
“U-understood, Elder Croneira.”
Inside the left residence of the main house of the Earthloch clan, an elderly woman fretted about ordering around a group of frantic servants. Even though these servants were charges of the main house itself, with abilities far better than a general serf’s, a look of deep worry still constantly plagued her aged face. She simply could conceive how she and her adherents were supposed to turn this tragedy into a blessing.
Her eyes overlooked a hearty berth of wood, stone, and glowing runes as if the answer would magically appear there.
It didn’t.
A tiny dhionne baby lay within the berth. Not the solution of her problems, but the very cause. 
Azure leaf-like hair topped her fair pinkish face, and the small lilac eyes reminded her of the twinkles of far away amethyst discs in the moonless night skies.
Yet her heart-rendering cries were akin to a Dying Blue Banshee. Her body glowed a deep azure and crimson, with manna raging out with the force of a tornado. Even for someone of the Elder’s power, it stung to push her hands through the storm.
A little older, and the Elder would have praised the baby for being a genius in the arts of manna seldom seen even in a hundred millennium. 
Yet the heiress had just been born a little over an hour ago. She had been releasing manna in quantities that would leave most babies her size and weight dead eighteen times over, every quarter-hour. The skin felt icy cold on one side and scorching hot on the other on Elder Croneira’s wrinkly hands.
Most worrying of all, even with all that manna gushing out, the petite babe showed no signs of stopping. As if something was missing to plug in the life continuously leaking away.
Croneira Gellen Earthloch had seen miscarriages and childbirth ending up in other forms of tragedies. But she had never come across a similar scenario to this in her one hundred ninety-five cycles of life as far as she remembered.
“E-Elder Croneira, what is wrong with her? My daughter…” A feeble voice asked. 
On the other end of the large room, a woman with hair resembling the newborn, yet without legs, rested inside a floating ball of neon blue water.
The mother’s bare body was being tended by a few servants injecting various herbs and remedies into the water sphere. But the medicine did nothing to soothe the mother’s heart. 
“Please! I beg you, save her.”
The Elder turned around at the mother’s voice; the worried expression was already gone from her aged face. She made a slight hand gesture towards one of the servants in a green chiton.
“I will, Chieftainess. That is my job, after all. There is nothing wrong with the heiress; she is especially gifted by the disc, is all.”
“I-is that so. Then I.. am glad.” A new cloudy substance swirled into the water, the mother quickly falling asleep under its hypnotic embrace.
Elder Croneira sighed.
She instructed the same servant, one of her adherent apprentices who had administered to sleeping remedy, “Keep her soothed, Feylis. It would do us no good to lose both mother and child if the worst comes to pass. Has the Grand Elder also been notified? What of the chieftain?”
“The Grand Elder just concluded his talk with the chieftain in the cloistered hall. The chieftain gave us full use of all oceanic-grade treasures and above as necessary. After that, he immediately headed out with four delver teams and many more hunters. The watches said he was heading to the Elkvine Manna-riogh near the west end of Lochuir.” Feylis paused to catch her breath.
“A-And, I have something else to report to the Elder!” The servant continued, with both conviction and fear painting her voice.
The Elder nodded in approval at the chieftain’s bold move, despite how she would think it was a preposterous idea in regular times. 
The Elkvines were the primary producer of all healing herbs and treasures in the Earthloch dominion. But for them to procure an elixir potent enough of mend fractured inner cores— a condition that showed similar symptoms to the heiress’s— they would have to delve deep enough to a stratum where mid, or even high-oceanic-grade Geistrums spawned.
It was a risky venture even with the most faultless of preparations. 
Not to mentions this time, it was without any long-term plans or contingencies. The heiress’s father must have decided on the course of action the moment he heard about the girl’s plight.
Yet, Elder Croneira was adamant about attributing the ailment to a fractured inner core just yet. Her years of experience painfully kept yelling at her ears everything about the situation that differed from inner core fractures. 
For one, she thought, ‘The manna channels inside the heiress are fine. It’s just that they are leading to somewhere… outside her body?’
The very thought went against most of her life’s studies. She shook her head and motioned for Feylis to continue her report.
“It’s about Eluned, my lady! H-Her, the son is also-”
“Eluned? She was a herb-tender of the painweeds under my husband, and hunter Dofnald’s wife, no? I was wondering why she was missing today. She was supposed to supply you all with a steady stream of carved clamdust and weaved painweeds. And, her expected date was supposed to be a nine-day away if I recall correctly.” The Elder interrupted the young maid. 
She was already in a foul mood with the disastrous day today had summed up to be. No matter how insignificant Eluned’s role was, the absence of one of the expected servants had made her none the happier.
Feylis could read the Elder’s displeasure with all the time she spent in her master’s company. So she hurried to her absent friend’s defence, “I-It was not her fault, master. This morning when she was on the way here bringing the batch of painweeds, her body acted up. She was in extreme pain, so she had to be carried into one of the rooms at the end of the main residence.”
“Did her manna gush? Why was I not notified of this?” The Elder figured out what had happened.
“Her water too, master. She finished giving birth a quarter-hour before her grace. We didn’t design to disturb you since the respected Elder was busy here. The babe and mother looked well at first, too, so we were joyous.
B-But, the son. He is not faring well now. Eluned, she-“The servant stammered, trying to find the right words, with her sister servants trying to help her along.
Yet the Elder interrupted her again, “Servant Feylis! Are you implying I should abandon the Earthloch main house heiress’s safety for a servant’s child?”
The servant, noticing her err, immediately bowed down and knocked her head to the stone floor, “I meant no disrespect, Elder! I was just worried about our sister. I ask the Elder for punishment.”
Seeing that, Elder gestured to Feylis with an understanding sigh, “Get up, my child. I know what you meant. But there are my direct disciples to take care of your needs; you should know that. The clan Earthloch takes care of their servants like no other on the disc.” 
Sometimes clan decorum forced her to be strict with words when servants went out of line. Yet, for one such as an Earthloch, they had hardly settled into the whole blue-blooded traditions. A subject of much laughter in the other noble dominions of the disc.
“Y-Yes, Elder.” Feylis obliged. A streak of redness surfaced on her forehead. She looked pained under the Elder’s gaze, yet after a few breaths, the young servant resolved her mind to her folly.
 She articulated carefully, “I-I think the condition of Eluned’s babe might be related to the heiress’s.”
Croneira’s eyes turned razor-sharp. She ignored the servant’s repeated offence and asked with the force of a tigress, “Explain! And you better be right, or else….”
Feylis nodded repeatedly; cold sweat and blood streaked down her forehead, “The babe, he... He is also leaking manna, my lady! And it started a quarter-hour after he was born! About the same time as when—“
“What!” The Elder interrupted the servant for the third time. She practically grabbed the young maiden with a claw-like grip, “What are the symptoms? The colours? Is the boy cold or hot?”
If the servant’s words were to be trusted, then a quarter-hour was precisely the interval between Eluned’s babe and the heiress’s birth. 
‘It might be a coincidence. But if it isn’t, then….’
If Feylis was hurt from the vice-grip, she didn’t show. “There are no colours. Just white. The manna is gushing out too, but the flow hovers in the air for a few breaths, then returns inside him with ten times the amount and force. A-And his cries, they are dying! His whole body keeps changing from cold like winter to hot like a fire over and over.”
‘Similar, but not quite. Yet enough so!’
The Elder immediately barked some orders to the surrounding maids and got someone else to take charge of Feylis’s duties.
A short few minutes later, after ensuring her absence would not lead to problems, she ordered Feylis, “Lead me to Eluned. I will judge for myself.”
She paused for a while, then continued with approval. “You have done well reporting this to me despite my status. Anything regarding the heiress should take more priority than my measly self. Whatever happens today, go to Elder Meredith of the servant’s depository after and withdraw two months of Oceanic Geistmeat, blood, and bones.” 
She paused, “And ten Earthen manna cores.”
The young maid who cheered up at the sudden windfall hurried to follow the order. “I-It is but my duty, Elder Croneira.”
The Elder, however, was no longer listening. Her body followed the servant like an automaton golem. Yet, her mind wandered back to something her now deceased master had disclosed to her right at the beginning of her own apprenticeship. 
‘Two babies born on the same day… Manna anomalies and weakening health… One leaving and one receiving… It must be like the Yuriel founders! If not that, then what?!’
Her conclusion brought her endless joy that if her guess was correct, then both newborns might just yet live. The tragedy would be overcome. However, 
‘A servant’s son….’
She hoped that whatever the clan chieftain and Grand elder were to do after she confirmed her conjecture, they would not let rank of blood cloud their judgement. Otherwise, it might just be a mercy to end the lives of the heiress and servant’s boy then and there.
After all, sometimes living in emptiness with fate long forgotten was far more painful than simply dying.


Chapter 2 - Tethered Twin Stars Part 2

Bromwyn Thundham Earthloch sat impatiently on a tree stump on the peak of a small grassy hillock. The giant Dhionne looked back at his people with eyes full of both pride and apology. 
He had done it. They had done it.
He made them risk their lives, almost a quarter of both oceanic hunters and delvers left at the shire outside the Lochuir township, for what most would consider a fool's errand. 
Any misjudgement on their part throughout the ordeal would have cost them much more than just their lives. 
But here they were, returning home proudly after barely three-quarters of a day, with rich bounty and, more importantly, medicinal herbs which could hopefully heal his newborn daughter's inner core.
No lives were lost, and the limbs could be re-attached if treated soon. It was a fortune on a rainy day that the Geistrums native to that stratum of the Elkvines preferred bladed offence rather than the other nastier kinds.
"Chieftain, the watches are in sight!" A terse winged man, shorter by a head than most other men present, quickly ran over to report to him. "Runner Iau should be there by now."
"Good," Bromwyn said while remaining seated. He gestured at part of their haul, "Tell Talfryn to take three hunting parties with all the carcasses. Cadwell, you take the rest of the haul to the alchemy pavilion."
As he set out tasks for two of the four delve leaders, his hands subconsciously reached out to a pouch tied to his belt. The smooth texture of the sack betrayed its leathery look.
Even now, he could taste the blood in his mouth and the scent of the rot when he had removed the contents of the sack from the eye-sockets of the 4th stratum guardian. He had almost lost his own eyes, if not for his companions' rescuing him on the brink of time. 
Many drops of blood, tear, and sweat had been shed in the process just to get these mulberry-red seeds. 
'It was all worth it….' He tried to reassure himself. 'Because if not-'
Bromwyn calmed his breath, unclenching his fists from the pouch. All the pride he felt from the successful delve could not overcome the deep-rooted terror he tried so hard to hide in the depths of his soul.
His newborn daughter, the culmination of his love with the woman of his dreams, was dying.
It would do no good to show his men the sight of a weak Chieftain; he knew that. But maintaining his façade even now was hard.
Cadwell had, of course, noticed. They had been sworn brothers for too long, while by blood, they were cousins. 
Yet, the winged man tactfully ignored Bromwyn's inner turmoil before leaving for his task. 
Bromwyn wasn't sure about the rest of his men, but he prayed that they hadn't gleaned of his weakness. Every cycle, these people lost those dear to them to one fateless cause or another. 
He had been the lucky one all his life, pardoned from losing anyone of significance in an untimely manner. So he took a deeper breath, his chest rising and falling with the mantra in his heart.
Whatever may happen, will. 
He, no, they had tried their best in the short window of time they had. The uncertainty of the situation didn't lessen the pain and worry, of course, haunting him of visions if the worst comes to pass. 
Not to mention his wife, who was already weak from a past injury and went through a difficult childbirth. She was a Faediaga. The heaven’s did not like her bearing the child of a Dhionne.
Collecting his thoughts through the short respite, Bromwyn looked up at the dark skies covering the disc as if to search for answers to his plight among the stars.
It was then that Runner Iau sprinted into the temporary camp with all the huffing and puffing of a farm beast. The boy was as short as his father, but a secret art of the Earthloch main house gifted him with the speed of the autumn wind.
"Chieftain!" He shouted, gasping for breath, almost falling over, "G-Good news!"
Bromwyn held the young boy up by his arms, "Steady lad." 
He then ordered one of the hunters to get the runner a skin of manna infused freshwater.
"Drink, and calm yourself. Whatever news you have, it won't do us any good if you faint before you can tell us." The Chieftain asked with a little bit of hope and unease, "Whatever made you run back seventeen miles in less than a quarter-hour should be significant enough that you are steady when you speak it."
The lad thanked the Chieftain, slowly gulping down the offered water. A few breaths later, he spoke, "The Grand Elder is waiting for you at the watches, your grace."
"What!" Bromwyn shouted. His father was just as worried about the newborn as he was, if not more. So why was he a hundred miles away from the clan township at such a time?
"There is more," Iau exclaimed, this time a well-intentioned grin forming on his face. "Uncle, Elder Croneira is with him too! They say the princess is well!"
Bromwyn waited no more. The words had barely left Iau Tudur Earthloch's lips when the other man practically bolted off the disc towards the nearby watchtower with the speed of the north wind, leaving a bewildered trail of hunters and a tornado of grass and leaves in his wake.
***
"Father!" Bromwyn shouted as he slammed open the door to the sentry house; the whole tower below seemed to rock at the force.
Of course, that was just an illusion playing tricks on his unsettled mind. The towers were built too sturdy to be rocked by the feelings of a distressed father. 
There were four people in the room. 
An old man was looking out of the northern window towards a vast lake beyond; the lake itself could only partially be seen with its more significant part hidden behind the lush mountains.
It was his father, the grand elder. He had grizzled white hair and a short yet flowy beard. The reed hat on his head gave off a rustic scent, giving other's the impression he was but a fisher or farmhand servant. Yet the sharp glint in his aged lilac eyes told a different story.
Elder Croneira was seated by the table, drinking aged fruit pulp out of a shell cup. She looked worse for wear, with fatigue visible on her already decrepit face. Yet the signs of worry were long gone, Bromwyn noticed, replaced by something else.
The last two were servants, with one being Feylis, whom he recognized as one of the maids tending to his wife during the labour. She was standing to the side with a dazzling younger man wearing a hunter's garb, the servants' sigil visible on his exposed arms with a bone blade hung to his back. 
His posture was steady, yet the clenching fists did nothing to hide the young man's inner turmoil. 
Feylis was alternating her gaze between these three people until Bromwyn's loud boom jolted her straight.
"Bromwyn, you've come." The old man spoke, but his gaze was not removed from the glistening lake water.
"Father, I've heard the news from Iau. Is it true?" Bromwyn impatiently asked. "Are my daughter's ailments really cured?"
The grand elder didn't respond; the old man simply stroked his silky beard. 
It was Elder Croneira who spoke up, "Chieftain, if I may interject. It wasn't an ailment. There was nothing to cure."
"Then what was it that almost took her life?" Bromwyn was taken aback.
He wondered if they had made a big fuss for nothing. That would indeed be embarrassing. But it was better than his daughter catching an untreatable fatal curse, worse yet than her inner core born cracked.
"It is hard to explain, my lord. To put it bluntly, it was our lack of immediate judgement that-"
"Are you telling me you almost messed up the childbirth!" Bromwyn uncharacteristically raged, slamming the table with his giant palms.
"Silence!" His father yelled, warning the burly chieftain sternly with a raspy voice. "The elder has explained to me the details. No one should be held responsible for what was but fate's fickle design."
Bromwyn calmed, pulling himself apart from the darker thoughts. He immediately apologized to Elder Croneira for his slight. 
The old woman didn't seem to be offended as she continued her explanation, "Your daughter has been born with a unique condition, my lord. Whether it is advantageous or detrimental, I do not know yet."
"And that condition caused her to almost die?"
"No, it was the place where the lady gave birth that is to be blamed. And please don't interrupt; let me finish." The old lady said exasperatedly, seeing Bromwyn acting up again.
"Your daughter, or rather, her soul, didn't come into this world alone. It was tethered to another's even before the light of the disc saw her. It was because the tether was stretched so thin that manna was continuously leaking from her body to repair it."
Bromwyn was confused, "I don't understand."
Elder Croneira thought for a while, then asked. "Do you know of those high-level slave sigils used on other discs?"
"Yes. They say it is a much stricter form of the servants' sigil we use here. It comes with many heartless restrictions. Though, what does it have to do with my daughter?" Bromwyn asked back.
"Your daughter was born with something similar to the slaves' sigil imprinted in her soul. Closer to Geist or spirit contracting sigils than slaves actually, if I were to be accurate. But the functions are similar without the restrictions for forceful obedience.
Yet one of those restrictions must've been about distance. She and her contracted were too far apart when she was birthed. We have moved them closer together now. Hence, she was cured."
Realization finally dawned on Bronwyn's face. But it didn't give him the peace of mind he wished for. "So my daughter is a slave now? No, A beast of burden for this other person, this soul mage?"
The elderly woman denied with vexation, "I doubt both of those, my lord. From what I have seen, this sigil-like-tether—not any sort of soul manipulating magic, goes both ways. I reckon it occurred naturally. Past cases testify to this, at least.
Before the two were brought closer together, the other party was also at death's door. However, we might need to do some more auguries to better our knowledge of the situation."
"Truly? Then, her well-being?"
"Is assured, my lord. Both the princess's and your wife's health has been improving. It may be belated, but please accept my heartfelt congratulations." Elder Croneira smiled at last. As if with that statement, she had officially declared the crisis mitigated.
Bromwyn shared her sentiment. His shoulders slumped down in relief; the fatigue he had hidden behind a stone exterior burst out on his face before quickly morphing into unbridled joy. 
He almost slumped on the floor as he roared a cry in relief. "Thanks to the manna, oh spirits of the hundred thousand lakes, custodian of our lives. Allow me my gratitude, for my daughter is well!"
A few more breaths of happy outbursts later, Bromwyn noticed an important detail he had forgotten to ask. 
With the gait of a Clan Chieftain that finally returned, he asked through a grim voice, "And what of this other party? Who should I blame for almost taking her away from me?!"
Elder Croneira looked troubled at that. But she still firmly spoke out her thoughts, "No one, my lord. It was a naturally occurring phenomenon, as I have mentioned. A talent of sort for both parties, similar to the martial spirits or soulbound armaments used on other discs, yet in this case, they are both dhionne. Though what results this tether ultimately brings remains to be seen. You may think of it as another cultivation root they were born with. As for the other parties' identity…."
Elder Croneira sighed, then turned her gaze to the other two participants in the room. Specifically, the young man who had been listening to their conversation with a confused face. Before Bromwyn could punch the poor man's face in, she continued.
"Stay your hands, my lord. It is not him." She paused, confirming that the Chieftain didn't go through his actions towards the man who somehow managed to look positively incensed rather than fearful at the clan Chieftain's actions.
But her following words simply shifted Bromwyn's rage down a generation, "It's his newborn son. Born a quarter-hour before the princess."


Chapter 3 - Dreams of a New Life

“Get out.” He said, his voice as calm as a spring breeze. His right hand rested on the arm of the swivel chair while he tapped the mahogany desk with his left. The analogue clock hung on the wall behind him ticked by the second, hitting his composed façade like a sledgehammer straight to his heart.
“So that’s it? Because of a single mistake, you are kicking us all out?” The woman opposite him spoke out in anger. Her red ashamed visage created a gap with her tall, explosive stature. She dressed herself in a ruby red office dress with plum red lipstick and crimson glazed high heels. But today, that red was not the red of passion but the red of shame and guilt.
All the other employees of his short-lived company watched on with trepidation through the glass walls as the lady in red and him went back and forth, all but one young woman in a cute black trench coat, sitting on a beanbag to the side while sipping on a can of beer. She sneered at Sarah’s shamelessness, before glaring at the cooling unit of the outer office. Of all days, the building management had to pick today to do maintenance. But of course, her dissatisfaction went unnoticed by others, who had far larger problems to worry about.
“Mistake? So you mistakenly lied to the media, gave them detailed stories that never happened, and dried the dirty laundry of my sister house’s for the whole world to see. Then you made a deal on behalf of my company with the guy who literally tried to steal our technology, accidentally?” The man said with no effort to hide the sarcasm.
The woman turned her face away in humiliation but still tried to say her piece, “It’s just business; there shouldn’t be personal feelings involved. Think of the potential of what I did, please! If played right, which I will, we can turn this start-up into a Multi-billion credit enterprise in less than a few months! We can compensate your sister’s family with cold hard cash! It’s all worth the results-”
The man scoffed, “You, of all people, know very well what I want and what I don’t. You went behind my back and turned this whole two-faced company against my own bloody family! You made the media bring pitchforks to their doorsteps when they just want to live a quiet fucking life! And you say that was fucking worth it? Worth what exactly?”
“If you aren’t prepared to be ruthless, then why even join the business world with a hot potato like that power source you invented? You should at least hear Mister Jason out and then consider-”, The woman shook her hands frantically as she continued her self-justified explanation. 
But she was cut off by a loud drawn-out sigh. The man rubbed his forehead, trying to hold down a splitting headache. 
“You aren’t suitable. None of you are. You are just money-hungry bastards who don’t give two cents about what the single-core should be used for. All you do is go for the highest bidder regardless of the consequences, regardless of my own damn opinion on the matter. You toyed with my aspirations, and you know what hurts the most? You lot fucking betrayed my trust in the name of ‘it will be worth it.’ You think I am the same kind of person as you. Sorry, but I can’t be such a hyena when there are better alternatives around.”
He stopped the woman who was practically begging at this point, “Sarah, don’t make me call the security. I will still pay you and ‘your people’ the contracted amount. And extra for terminating the contract early. This company is done. I’m tired; I need a long rest.”
The woman went quiet. Her face turned deathly pale at the realization that the man really was serious. 
Her eyes began darting around in panic. She had predicted some backlash, but this was definitely not the result she or her actual employer ever hoped for. This was a gate closed, not a business negotiation! 
“I-I can make it up to you.” The woman brought out a piece of paper from her red handbag, “Please, I beg you, don’t misunderstand me; I’m not the kind of person you think I am! Everything I did was for this company and for us, and I made a mistake because I let my love blind me! I let your love for me blind me. I know you also want to build a future where you and I can be happy. I-I actually always liked you too, but I was always afraid you would reject me because I can’t divorce my husband. So I had to hide some things from you. I know my mistakes now. We can work this out together. This time, I promise I won’t make such silly mistakes. So please, don’t be hasty.
T-That’s right, come to my house tonight. Let’s think about what we can accomplish, the unlimited funds for the future of your hard-built company! You can do so much more with the money only I can make for you. You can build all the humanitarian technology you want if you just be a bit open-minded!”
The man patiently listened to her excuses for the last time. Seeing how she was so shameless till the very end, he felt his heart shatter. ‘How could I have been so blind, ah.’
He slowly swivelled his chair around, facing away from the woman who now had tears and snot ruining her exquisite make-up. “Sarah... Don’t embarrass yourself any longer. Don’t make me lose the last bit of respect I have for you. A girl of your talents can shine elsewhere without the need to sell your body or betray your husband… So… just go.”
He closed his eyes, refusing to entertain Sarah any longer. Seeing that he had made up his mind, she finally tore away all the façades of earnestness she had put on. No longer was the tenderness of a coy woman there, but a vengeful femme who had her desires wronged.
“You’ll regret this, you know that, right? You think you’re the only hot shit on the market? I will see how many of those unrealistic, utopian dreams you can pull off being so naïve. They’ll eat you alive, this world.” She spat out, hoping to provoke a final reply.
But after a few minutes of silence, Sarah’s shoulders slump. It really was over, and she knew it. And she wept. She kneeled on the floor and cried hard for just one more chance. But the man did not even look at her.
He just sat there in his dark titanium chair, thinking, regretting, ruminating. He ignored all the pleading and grovelling the other former employees of his now-defunct company did after Sarah had stormed out, before they too gave up and left.
Even after a few hours had passed, he simply sat there with glossed over eyes, sighing deep at what an absolute fool he was. 
*******
*thud* 
He was rudely jolted awake from his thoughts by a bamboo take-out box being slammed quite rudely on his desk—a logo of an animated chicken wearing a kimono winked at him the moment his eyes crossed that of the mascot’s.
‘Who the fuc-’
The shock had finally pushed the man beyond his stress threshold for the day. He was just about blast into a satisfying round of expletives when he looked up and witnessed the beautiful face of an angel, no, a succubus! 
The woman was short, petite even. But had thick carves where she needed and deep valleys where she wanted. She had a seductive shine on her sensual, violet lips and a coquettish gleam in her foxy, pink eyes. A lock of her wavy shoulder-length platinum blonde hair swayed in front of her face, which she so daintily combed behind her small, ruby-studded ears.
That sexy denim blouse looking ready to burst open and those risqué heart-shaped hot pants with just enough skin and butt peeking out to give someone hope for an unforgettable night, her smoky make-up and that spunky black choker…Why…Why… 
‘Why the hell is she wearing something so bloody indecent in my perfectly civil office room?!’
Then he saw her angry pout, and the sweat on her forehead… and the trench coat tossed crassly on the sofa.
‘Right… today was her date night with Naomi….’ The man averted his gaze. But then smiled for the first time that day. This could be considered a small form of revenge. She forced him to be a villain, and he ruined her sexy time with her girlfriend.
Tit-for-tat.
This spicy pipsqueak who had inappropriately dolled herself up was the only person unfazed by what had just happened, when it happened. The only ‘employee’ not to beg for a second chance, because her entire being oozed a kind of confidence that when she wanted a second chance, or a seventh chance, the man could only bow his head and oblige her commands.
Because she was his bestest friend ever! The man affirmed that fact once more as he scrutinized that face he so desperately wished to never see again.
“Eat up, doofus. You’re stomach’s been rumbling like an angry kettle the last few minutes.” She chirped with an irritating note, sliding half of the bento in his direction.
“You’re still here…I thought you left.” The man muttered, organizing his disorderly mind away for the anger and evil. “Thank you, by the way. For telling me what they were up to.” The man said, but gratitude wasn’t the only thing that reached his cloudy eyes. He had more complex emotions seeing her. His saviour and his destroyer.
“As they like to say on that side of the yellow river, ‘Without you, I would have sold myself as a slave and would be counting the money for my seller’s convenience’.” He gave her a weak laugh before picking up a fried chicken with a spork. Chopsticks were too meta for his meagre abilities.
“Enough of that. It’s my job.” The young woman rebuked with a mouth full of karaage chicken. 
“Which one? This, or the one for the Intelligence agency?” He asked; a bit of spite could not help leak into his voice even though he saw the goodwill behind her completely selfish actions. His heart was bitter and sour, but the chicken tasted sweet and gingery on his tongue. He chewed on it some more, and the flavour of the beer batter finally assaulted his taste buds. 
Crunchy.
“Both! And enough of that sulking.” She sighed, trying to poke the man’s cheek with her oily chopsticks. She then asked as her feet dangled from his mahogany desk on which she so impudently sat, “So now what? Are you really going to close store?”
“Yes.” He answered, frowning as he considered if he should push her off from his prized table.
But he had worse things to worry about. A bit of bone had someone gotten stuck between his teeth. He poked at it with his tongue until it freed before drinking a large gulp of water. “I am going to licence out the single-core to other companies, or the state for that matter.”
The woman frowned at the revelation.
“… Isn’t that the same as what Sarah tried to do?”
“No! She wanted to give the technology to an arms developer, who would turn the single-core into a bomb that can blow up a city. No matter how eco-friendly they promise to make their doomsday machine, I want my stuff to have nothing to do with it. I’m going to put stringent and specific clauses on what the tech can and can’t be used for.”
“So that’s it then?”
“Yes. I don’t trust myself enough to keep a reign on what a person with too much ambition will do. I don’t trust people, in general, to keep their ambitions to themselves either. Better let the government handle all that. And besides,” 
He looked at the young woman again. She looked to be enjoying this synthetic meal far more than he was. He winced when he saw her scoop out some wasabi paste with her finger and eating it raw. 
“Isn’t a dissolution beneficial to you too? That’s why you told me about all the backdoor deals Sarah was doing in the first place. So that you can spend less time babysitting me and more time with your spy bullcrap.”
“Hells, for the last time. I am not a spy, and it isn’t crap. It’s homeland security.” She glared at him. “To answer your question, yes, it is, in fact, extremely beneficial to me if you could just laze around at home without me having to wipe your behinds every time something goes wrong. We reached an agreement on that, and I will not accept you backing out after all that trouble. Sarcastic quips are fine, though; yours are very weak.”
The man ignored her offhand insult, “Aren’t you in detention? Even if your workload lessens and I don’t get my tech stolen by who knows what, will the agency even put you back on the field just because?”
The young woman frowned, twirling a lock of her hair. She knew he was right. But her confusion didn’t linger for long, “Even if they won’t. I can just work on the dead cases collecting dust in the archives. With your company no dissolved, I have all the free time I need. If I can produce results, I’m sure they will reinstate me!” She nodded, as if to convince herself of her masterplan.
“… Whatever, I’m going home. It’s been a tiring day, and my sister should be worried sick about by now.” The man decided not to call her out on her naivety.
“Want me to drive you back?” She offered.
The man looked her in the eyes hard and long. He wanted to find some sinister motifs there but only found a confused head-tilt. The man then realized he didn’t really care what scheme the young woman was hatching. She was the only one who reached out to help him in this cesspit full of traitors, when she was the one that literally least needed to. 
He could give her some benefit of the doubt. 
The man looked away right before the woman was about to blow her top. Better to stop early with the oogling before she punched him in the guts again.
“Sure, but I’m taking the beer then.” The man smirked out a reply after grabbing both cans of kraft, ignoring the young woman’s feeble yet cute protests.
That night, he got so drunk that he got a hangover before even collapsing on the bed.
***
He woke with a start. His vision was still blurry, but his mind instantly caught some anomalies. The air of the room felt rustic on his skin. ‘Ahhh, my head. What a strange nightmare. Fuck, did the air purifier break down?’ 
He tried to grab his aching head, trying to reign in the migraine. But something small and soft slammed into his face with a thwack. A loud cry of a baby from somewhere near him made his headache worse, and his mind confused.
Why would there be a baby on his bed?
Last night he really had drunk too much 60% lunar brew. He needed to drown out what had happened with Sarah, and booze was one of the more enjoyable ways to do it. The exploding Octa-core Annihilator certainly didn’t help either. 
‘Wait, Sarah wasn’t on the Gigantomachy! I fired her three decades ago!’
He rubbed his temples, trying to make some sense of his jumbled mind. But this damn squishy thing kept thwacking him left and right. The crying was still going strong, and now the thwacker was wet and slimy, getting some sort of water goop all over his face.
‘Go away!’ He tried to yell out. But all that left his mouth was a “Waaaaah Wahh!”
‘Waaaaait a minute,’ He stopped, his body stilling like a needle. His vision slowly cleared. He concentrated on the thing that kept hitting him.
It was a hand—pint-sized like a baby’s, a bit pinkish too. But there was something wrong… it had six fingers. The last one was like a thumb but grew beside what should be the pinky.
His gaze followed the hand to figure out the hateful fella who kept slapping him, only to find the palm joining with a forearm connected to the arm at the elbow and finally, a shoulder.
His shoulder.
‘Oh,’ he gasped, and the crying stopped. Only soft breathing remained.
He realized it was actually him who was crying.
‘Am I still dreaming?’ He thought in bewilderment as he struggled to lift his head up. 
He couldn’t. It was damn heavy. He couldn’t stand either. His legs kept curling up above his belly no matter what he tried to do.
His mind sank into a haze of mist. It felt like his brain was frying every time he tried to think his current situation through. But he still tried. This was probably the most realistic lucid dream he had ever had, and he was no longer enjoying being in it. 
‘Did someone plug me into a virtual reality pod? So we didn’t… die….’
It was then that the memories of the blast returned in full force. The pain of getting his every nerve overloaded with infinite random information surfaced as he found himself back into the core room of the Gigantomachy. This time though, the whole structure was made out of solid light and kept fading in and out like a realistic illusion.
The heat seared his eyeballs; the radiation mutated his innards.
The pain was too much. He screamed and passed out.
***
He woke up again, this time without the nightmares or the pains. His mind was clear as water, but his body was still uncooperative. 
“Where am I? Why am I a baby? What happened to the Gigantomachy? Did the Collective get the data packet?” He said as he looked up at the stone ceiling. There was a glowing stone stuck on there, in the shape of a cloud—the soft light illuminating the room.
Suddenly he heard a squeaky voice speak from beside, “W-Where am I? Why is my body so little? Where’s the weapon control? I need to shoot down even one enemy fighter before I die!”
He turned his head around with great difficulty to see another baby with an extremely distressed face looking straight at him with giant lilac eyes.
It was she, by the rounded features of her face. But he could be mistaken. Because the baby was honestly the weirdest toddler, he had ever laid eyes on.
Blue hairs like gently placed weaves of leaves topped her cute head. Her skin was an unnatural hue of white, like white paint, or the blank canvas of a photo editing software. It felt eerily out of place, and the bluish blood vessels underneath that skin gave her an even more ethereal presence.
Not to mention the deep blue tattoos that lined her face and body in an intricately drawn vine-like pattern. She looked like a baby fished straight out of a fantasy game.
Her glistening eyes kept a hold on his own gaze for a few more minutes. He felt strange emotions bubble gently in his mind. 
They were like faded sights, sounds, scents, touch, and tastes all together in one packaged bundle.
Separate, he would have ignored them as his mind playing tricks. Together, they painted the picture of a specific person he was just about starting to miss. ‘Could it be?’
He called out a name in an alien voice. The name of his best friend who should have died with him. The other party’s eyes stretched wide at the sudden call. Far wider than naturally possible as a human.
The feeling in his mind turned static, his best friend’s face overlapping with the strange blue and white baby.
Then, it started hurting.
‘Oh no, not agaaaa…iin….’ an infantile scream escaped his mouth. The last thing he saw before passing out was a dark silhouette rushing towards him with a glowing apparatus in both hands, and the other blue and while baby screaming twice as loud as his consciousness faded to black.


Chapter 4 - Investigative Grappling
It was his third time waking up from blackness. This time someone was swaying him tenderly while singing a soft tune in an unknown language. The shock from before slowly vanished with his newest bout of awakenness. He felt refreshed, if anything.
Whoever was humming the tune—a lullaby, he assumed—noticed that he was awake. The shadow fell away from his vision, and he saw a young woman smiling lovingly at him. She was whispering something in a strange sing-songy voice. Or was it just the uniqueness of this maiden's language?
The woman had wavy hair the colour of tree barks, a beige-green. Her golden eyes were slit like a reptile's, but he saw no malice there—only devotion. There were several other abnormalities, too, such as her arms feeling strangely rough and grainy against his own skin, but not uncomfortably so. The woman's skin looked virtually the same as an East Asian's from Earth to his human senses.
However, he was sure that whoever or whatever she was, she wasn't a human.
He suddenly remembered the irregularities about his own body, his chubby arms that kept trying to thwack himself… and he was pretty sure that he wasn't a human any longer either.
So then, what was he? What was his relationship with this woman? He noticed he had a similar skin colour to hers. But that wasn't enough information.
The woman had by then carried him back to a crib, presumably the place he had first regained consciousness. She lightly rubbed his cheeks with her fingers and kissed him on the forehead.
'1, 2, 3….6 fingers.'
A few more seconds of unknown muttering later, she was gone.
'Ah…. Is that a common trait of these… beings, or is she possibly my mother or a relative?' He thought back on his deceased parents and found it hard to accept. So he corrected himself, 'The mother of this body then… maybe?'
While he was thinking, a pair of squishy hands started kneading his cheeks out of nowhere. He turned his head sideways to see the white and blue baby from before.
She was lying prone on her belly, facing towards him. Their eyes crossed for a split second, and she stopped kneading.
But then she ignored his questioning gaze and went back to stretching and pinching his facial parts again.
"Stop that!" He growled in Earth Common.
"It tickles! And hurts!
She paid him no heed.
A few more tries later, he tried to slap away the harassing hands with his own short appendages. Yet alas, it seemed he was born physically inferior to the assailant, even as both were babies.
"I said stop!" Again, no results. This time she infuriatingly booped his nose too before sniffing his ears.
"That's it, you asked for it." He mustered up all the strength and knowledge he could in that quick breath of time and counter-attacked.
And by counter-attack, he rolled his body with great effort, on top of the little tattooed scum-bag.
It was finally her turn to feel distressed, as the move was as sudden as it was unexpected. It effectively locked her in position under his back, and she soon started wheezing.
"Take that!" He beamed as he got the desired response out of the harasser. "Teach you to bully me. You think I can't do self-defence? I went to the dojo four times!"
However, before he could feel any happier, he felt the slithering touch of a group of slimy fingers fondling his body.
'Oh no.' He thought, "WAAI-"
Before he could surrender, he broke into maniacal laughter. The laughter then turned into something like a frog croaking, followed by erratic, heaving coughs.
It felt like literal centuries, and before he gave up all control over his body to the demon in a baby's skin, the tickle-torture stopped.
He lay there, breathing heavy and spasming with tiny twitches, wondering why the woman from before hadn't come to save him from an apparent hostile force. Maybe he didn't laugh hard enough. Wait… he was crying at the end, wasn't he?
Before he could get too comfortable lying down, though, the demonic hands returned. But this time, they did nothing so impolite, simply nudging his cheek till he gave up again and looked her way again.
"So…" She spoke at last, "Do you think this is a dream?"
"… you forced me through all that to find out… if we are dreaming?" He asked in disbelief.
The other baby nodded.
"Why didn't you pinch your own cheek?!" He raged.
"… I did before you woke up." She replied a matter-of-factly.
"You!! No, we can't be sure about that. What if whatever's happening is strange enough that it can bypass logical self-ques? Let me do it, so we can be as objective as possible. Now roll over!" He found strength like he never felt before in the few tens of minutes he was awake and made another enraged roll towards her.
"You can try!" She declared in equal parts amusement and challenge.
Yet, the struggle he anticipated didn't come. Even after smooshing her cheeks like she did his and launching his own tickling attack fueled by vengeance, the girl only giggled a little but didn't resist.
Before long, his emotions were vented thoroughly. That, and he found himself dead tired in that one minute of physical violence, and his hands somehow ending up inside the girl's mouth. The baby girl licked his hand taking the chance, and her eyes smiled into crescents.
"… Ey." He sensibly retracted his hands. Now that he was calm, he felt weirdly inappropriate, as if he had committed a sin in the heat of the moment that he should not have.
Back when they were adults, this kind of interaction would result in a confusing relationship going forward. Yet now…
Before he could wallow in any more self-shame though, she affirmed her earlier guess. "Hmm, that definitely didn't wake me up if this were a dream. But I'm not really ticklish. What about you?"
He eyed her carefully for any signs of aversion and found none. The boy fumbled out a reply hiding his face behind his palms, "Ahh… I don't think so. I'm still not awake."
She laughed, "Or we are awake, and this is not a dream, silly!"
"Y-Yeah, that. That's what I wanted to say."
"Are you sure now?"
He blushed anew, as much as a baby could. "Yup! So let's not do any more baby fights, please."
Her childish laugh sounded strongly melodious in his ears.
"Then, Mr Man-of-objective-science, do you think this is a virtual reality cabin of some kind? I heard your friend, Sanada Yukimura, installed a-,"
"Sakada Sugimura. And yes, he did, since a single-core is just about the only thing that can power that beast. I tried it for a test run on Gigantomachy with some of the boys. It certainly was the most advanced VR technology in the collective. But.. It was nowhere near as realistic as all this." He rolled over till he was lying prone and gave the leafy bedding they were lying on a few deep sniffs.
"Mmhm, Smells grassy and citrusy."
He rolled again in the other direction until he could touch the fence of the crib. It felt like wood on the touch of his fingers, but he couldn't be absolutely sure.
He then turned towards the other baby, who was now looking at him with a giggle on her lips. He slowly stuck out his tongue, keeping eye contact with the other party, and… gave the crib a lick.
"Hehe." That got a snicker out of his attentive audience.
The boy conducted a few more investigative manoeuvres. He then announced his expert analysis, "This wood, or the polish on top of it, tastes bitter... and smokey."
He paused for a bit to think back on the memories of the virtual pod on the Gigantomachy, "Yup. I'm sure. There was no sense of smell or taste with this level of intricate details. Even if we ignore sight, hearing, and touch, which can be reproduced easier with the collective's current technology."
The other baby turned serious at that conclusion.
"Unless someone grabbed our disintegrated bodies or cell remnants from deep space after the blast, cloned or healed us, and plugged us into a device far better in level than even the best of the Collective's, this all…is real?"
"Or the life before this was the lie, and this has been the reality all along." He replied with a mirthful laugh.
She didn't respond to his lousy attempt at humour. Her expression shadowed over.
"I can't believe it.." She mumbled. "We…"
"Yeah, I know it can be shocking. I am having a hard time accepting it too, leaving behind everything and everyone we ever knew and being stranded in this world without our friends or Miramarja-", He tried his best to comfort the curled up little girl, even though he desperately needed someone to do the same to him too.
Yet a loud cheer interrupted him, "We're aliiiive!"
The hands of assault returned like a storm but without the harassment. Before he knew it, she rolled over and grabbed him tight in a hug—an awkward yet fluffy hug because of the baby's insufficient motor skills, but a warm hug nevertheless, filled with joy and exhilaration.
"We're alive!" She cheered repeatedly. "Your wish came true!"
Her bubbling force nearly overwhelmed him also, his anxiety being thrown out of the window like an old rag he no longer wanted. He asked in the tangle of limbs, "Y-Yeah? What wish?"
The girl stopped. She stared at him for a few seconds from above, then shook her head. "I… don't know? I feel like I forgot something important."
He shrugged, "It happens when you get disintegrated into pure information and energy like that. Not your fault."
The girl beamed, "Nothing ever is, is it?"
Before he could reply, the girl pecked his forehead rolled over from above, crashing onto the bedding beside him, letting go of her worries. "You need to be… more.. ahhhh-hhaaaa~aawn."
"That was an enormous yawn." He smiled, finding her shift in energy levels quite amusing. But the boy then caught himself yawning just as loud.
"Baby brains can't handle so much confused thinking. You overclocked our brains with all your analyses. Ok, stop glaring at me. Babies can't do grappling either. I'm sorry I manhandled you."
He puffed hot air out from his nose and harrumphed in the other direction. But what she said made sense. He felt like he had just finished a hundred kilometres marathon.
"Shame. There's more I want to investigate, but that's enough thinking for now, I guess." He yawned again, then tried to roll over to a more comfortable position on the crib. The fence was pushing against his upper arm, which now felt sore.
When he was back at his original position in the baby bed's dead centre, she also rolled up next to him. One of her hands gently rested on top of his chest, and the other linked with his own. It didn't feel uncomfortable, and he was too tired at this point to even complain.
Soon after that, the light breathing of two otherworldly souls was all that was left in that unknown spacious room.


Chapter 5 - Beast Taming

Thirty days passed in the blink of an eye. They both learnt a lot of unusual things about their new homeworld in the meantime.
The most important thing, in his opinion, were the names. Or what he suspected were names.
“Ellie, are you jinxing us?” He heard a squeaky voice chirp. The boy, who was referred to as Ellie, was currently trying to uncurl his baby legs, consciously. But his efforts were in vain as the two tiny appendages had been extremely uncooperative. 
He had read an article on some tabloids that, in rare cases, babies could walk before 3 months. He hoped he could too, but his hopes were meant to be dashed again, it seems.
“It’s Elrhain. Show some respect! And it’s not improbable, see? Our mothers take turns taking care of us, but we never see our father. You realize how these feudal societies work, don’t you?” He thought back on the other woman who would breastfeed them every other night, whilst the first one with six fingers, Elrhain’s birth mother, would take charge of their meals in all other times.
The first time this second mystery woman visited was a day after their initial investigative activities. The bubbly leaf-headed young woman hugged Elrhain’s mother, hugged the servants—he assumed by their subservient behaviour—she hugged an elderly woman and finally hugged Agwyn into a loving squeeze. 
That was the name of the other baby, Agwyn. Though Agwyn was adamant in nicknaming themselves, Ellie and Annie.
When Agwyn’s mom realized she didn’t have enough hands to hug Elrhain—because she was holding another of those glowing crystals with her right palm—she conjured a stream of water to pick Elrhain up.
Even though Elrhain’s own mother went pale in the face, the curious boy didn’t mind the magical embrace at all. If anything, the water hug felt more refreshing than the stuffy physical ones.
Then, after putting Agwyn down, she held Elrhain in her arms and showered him with ten minutes worth of snuggles and smooches. That the woman had no legs horrified Elrhain for a good few minutes, but he soon lost his worries in the warm cooing. Though from the corner of his eyes, he could not help but glance at her robes where her knees should have been. There was only sloshing water there kept in the shape of a slug’s lower half. Freaky, but nothing he could change to his own liking.
Elrhain also noticed some discrepancies in Agwyn’s mother’s relationship with Elrhain’s own. The whole thing looked like a forceful, one-sided sisterly bond, with Elrhain’s mother being quite wary and respectful of the slug woman initially.
Hence, a few days ago, he suggested to Agwyn, “Do you think my mum is the concubine, and your’s is the principal wife?”
That day, Agwyn didn’t stop crying till she fell asleep in exhaustion; her eyes, nose, and ears were still plump violet in anger the following day. Elrhain was stunned. No matter how childlike their frames were, their minds were still that of old bags of bones. Agwyn should not have reacted like that. 
But considering that he also acted like a bona fide toddler sometimes, without even his conscious control, he put the mystery of their volatile psych in his ever-growing list of things to investigate.
Today, he had inadvertently brought the topic up again while practising his pathetic motor skills.
“My crib neighbour, Ellie dear, stop assuming things like that, okay? It’s rude! Look at our bodies; look at all these freaky disparities in our bodies. Do you really think we are half-siblings?” Agwyn complained while puffing up her cheeks. She had been somehow crawling around the crib with her noodly body in an attempt to jump-start her carrier in physical sports. 
According to her, crawling was a significantly more efficient manoeuvre to master at their growth stage than actual walking. He saw the logic in that but felt positively disturbed at not being able to do something as simple as a stand.
“You’re the one assuming, not me. People in this place have leaves for hair and water for legs. I wouldn’t be surprised if one of our other siblings, if we have any, that is, is a Manticore or a Charizard.” Elrhain replied to her grumbles with mean logic of his own. It’s not like he wanted them to be siblings. But observations said otherwise. 
He had also reached the limit of bodily exertion for that day, so he had nothing better to do than heave while lying flat on his back and push Agwyn’s many buttons for some casual entertainment.
But Agwyn would not relent. She refused to step back and just go with Elrhain’s teasing with this topic. “Do you think that if they were fellow wives, they would have such a good relationship? In feudal societies back on Earth, people used to murder their fellow wives.”
“Maybe they do have a good relationship? Otherwise, why would they even raise us together like this? Even breastfeeding us in turns.”
“T-that, I do not know.” Agwyn wore a dismayed expression as she stopped in her tracks. A few seconds ago, she was circling around Elrhain’s fallen form like a drift car, mocking him for being so weak. That energy had left her.
‘Speaking of breastfeeding,’ Elrhain looked at his mother—it was still hard to accept the fact, but not as much after a whole month of being washed and breastfed. The slit-pupil lady was walking towards their crib with some leafy towels, a bucket of water, and a few other necessities from their room entrance. 
She whispered in the strange language of this world what could only be expressions of adoration, and picked him up by the armpits. She cooed at him, kissed his forehead, and followed up with several other forms of motherly affection.
On most days, this lady would spend every waking minute beside their crib, either weaving clothes out of unknown material or simply playing with the two kids till they fell asleep.
Today, someone had called her away early in the morning after their first breastfeeding session. Whatever happened, she looked mighty happy right now.
Elrhain’s mother loosened her silky robes at the shoulder. He knew what was to come, and he was numb to it at this point. Elrhain thought back on the first day of this absolutely new experience,
***
“Wha-, let go of me, woman! Help! What are you doing? Wait, that’s lewd. It’s immoral, I tell you-pfftmm” Elrhain struggled with all his baby might, but that seemed to just excite the women even more. Elrhain could swear he saw the woman’s golden slit-pupils turn pink.
He had never been so humiliated in his life. 
Logically, he knew it was natural. Emotionally, he felt like he had sinned, and he was sinned upon.
Not to mention his own damn body betraying him at the most crucial moment. The moment his mouth touched the cherry tips of his mother’s soft breasts, it started sucking uncontrollably like a starved vacuum cleaner, and his entire body relaxed into a melty cloud. As if the milk injected him with a dose of elephant tranquillizer in some heinous scheme to force him to suffer the indignity defenceless.
After what felt like a week-long torture session, the young mother giddily laid her son down on his tiny prison.
“You seemed to be enjoying yourself,” Agwyn harrumphed, but her voice also leaked a strange sense of glee. He couldn’t tell if she was making fun of him or was feeling salty.
“Y-You wouldn’t know! I-if you ever tell anyone about this then—Wait….” He stopped, eyes wide. Then the just dishonoured boy smirked with mirth.
“What?” The other baby asked in confusion. She got her answer when the elated woman gently picked her up into the same position Elrhain was just in. “Hold on a bloody minute, you’re not even my damn mother-pfftmmmph”
‘Ah, now we both share this dirty secret.’ He watched on in equal parts glee and shame as his breast friend was defiled right before his glistening eyes by none other than his own mother.
***
Lunchtime was over, and Elrhain watched his skittish mother fidget around the room like a headless pigeon. He’d never seen her this nervous, and he’d seen her nervous practically every other day over the past month.
He asked Agwyn, “What do you think is going on?”
“Maybe someone special is visiting? She keeps looking at the door.” She answered, and no sooner did the door in question open wide with a large gust of wind.
Agwyn’s mother entered the room with a loud exclamation while skipping with her slug shaped legs. She slid past her entourage and scooped both the infants up into a squishy cuddle.
Elrhain, who became dizzy after a short merry-go-round by the reckless slug woman, sensed a large shadow lumber over his tiny form. He felt a shiver run down his spine as an unmistakable premonition of doom washed over him, and his eyes and arms involuntarily grabbed towards his weak-legged mother. The unreliable woman was fidgeting by the wall with watery eyes.
‘This traitorous- Wait, hold on.’
Now that he looked carefully, she had a more reverential, if slightly fearful look on her face as she looked in his general direction.
No, she was looking behind him.
Past the fluttering hair of Agwyn’s mother stood a man straight out of a barbarian fantasy. He had long braided hair and a Viking’s beard. His eyes glowed Lilac and nostrils flared with fire. 
The barbarian wore no upper clothing, revealing the bulging muscles and the symbols throbbing all over them. They pulsed with fury, both the muscles and the symbols. They promised violence and absolute dominance on Elrhain’s barely one-foot form.
The little boy felt the sweat on his back trickle down like a cascade, and a salty taste assaulted his taste buds, almost making him vomit. The bubbly voice of Agwyn’s mother faded into the background as his eyes crossed with the hulking predators.
The barbarian squinted, his teeth biting at his lower lips—the braided beard menacingly swaying in the air.
‘M-Momma.’ He tried to speak, but his voice came out empty. Elrhain tried to turn his head around but found it stuck in position by an invisible vice grip.
So he did the only other thing he could do.
He screamed, then peed his pants.
***
Elrhain lay down on the crib with a fresh pair of pants. His eyes reflected his empty souls as the boy just stared up at the glowing rock on the ceiling, searching for answers as to why the actions of someone has unintended consequences on others.
“Pfft, y-you peed in her breasts, ahaha! I thought we practised holding it in! Hells, why doesn’t this world have a video recorder?” Agwyn was literally rolling on the crib, giggling her guts out. She had fared far better in that encounter with the troll than he had.
‘Hmph,’ Elrhain snorted. She didn’t see what he saw. She was safe in the crib all the while he had to oppose blood-lust head-on. It was like waking up in the middle of the night to find the boogeyman staring right at him, just a thousand times scarier. At least the boogeyman was imaginary.
The beastly snarl on that man’s face was real.
Well, the snarl had now morphed into an apologetic expression.
The barbarian in question was currently kneeling on the floor. The servants had already been ordered to leave the room while Elrhain’s mother took care of the… messy aftermath.
Agwyn’s mom had punched the barbarian in the guts after that.
Elrhain didn’t even know why he was so afraid. If earlier the man had a face like Elrhain stole his last cookie and owed him a billion credits, right now he sounded like a kicked puppy getting scolded after chewing through all 15 pillows in the house.
He saw the man stand up after Agwyn’s mother finished delivering her stern piece. Elrhain’s mom was standing on the side with an awkward expression on her face, not interfering with the slug woman and big guy’s one-sided feud.
The man soon loomed over the crib again, his face perplexed and unsure. Now that Elrhain watched closely, the barbarian was covered in tattoos similar to Agwyn’s.
“He’s your dad,” Elrhain said.
“… looks like it. Why is he making faces at you?” She asked.
“You should have seen the look on his face earlier.” He grumbled back. 
With hands more enormous than their bodies, the barbarian very carefully picked Agwyn up. Like she was the most fragile thing in the world.
Agwyn giggled, deciding to reward the man. And it worked like medicine. The man broke into a shit-eating grin, and those watermelon-sized eyes of his melted like they were made of candy. He whisper-shouted something excitedly, and Agwyn’s mother rushed to his side, the fury all gone.
She taught him how to hold Agwyn in different ways, and he listened like a filial disciple. Soon after, the man was guffawing merrily with his daughter giggling in his arms.
The more Agwyn did something, anything, the more the man changed from a prairie wolf to a domestic pug.
‘Ah, he’s been tamed.’ Elrhain thought. He once read an article in a weekly father’s magazine on how most fathers were biased towards daughters, especially if the girls were born late. It seems this was the case here, too. Presuming they were siblings, of course.
‘But, maybe I can….’ He contemplated for a bit.
Agwyn made some more cute baby noises to let her parents know she was tired. It was extraordinary how expressive her baby-speak could be at conveying complex emotions. Her mother smacked the big guy on the shoulder and gestured him to put Agwyn down.
The big guy obeyed. He tugged the fluffy fur pillow under Agwyn’s head, but then the man went on to look at her with a gaze full of yearning.
Elrhain saw the perfect chance, the void in the barbarian’s heart, and made his sinister move. He made eye contact with Agwyn, and the other baby guessed right away his motifs and scooted over to the side.
Just when the man was about to retract his hands from the crib’s fence, Elrhain grabbed a large pinky with his tiny fingers and cried, “Agoo!”
A strategy that always got his mother’s pupils to turn heart-shaped, he did not feel like he would fail against the man-shaped doggo.
And he was right!
The man’s eyes first turned wide in shock! He looked startled, and his eyebrows squinted extremely hard. He looked at the five tiny fingers tenderly hugging his pinky. His expression morphed from confusion, then fear, and finally to absolute amazement.
“Aiyaaa,” Elrhain struck on, pretending he was a cute chubby cupid in a cuteness simulator. He tried to grab the man with his other hand too, but lost his balance and clumsily fell over with a yelp. He quickly sat up again and turned his watery eyes upwards, right through the big guy’s eyes to his softest heart. Elrhain’s hands searched for something to hold but found no destination. And with that, large droplets of tears started tumbling from his eyes as he sobbed like a wronged daughter-in-law.
The man looked at a loss. He turned his gaze towards his wife, whose eyes were smiling into crescents. Agwyn’s mom called over Elrhain’s own with a soft whisper.
The other woman had seen what happened, and her face was beaming too. She still looked a bit reserved when speaking with the larger man, yet it did not stop her from pointing at his pinky.
The man slowly extended his smallest finger towards Elrhain’s outstretched palm, his face masked with nervousness and anticipation. 
Elrhain didn’t disappoint. ‘Hook, line, and sinker!’
A silent few seconds followed his third baby-squeak, “Kyaa~n,” and the man burst into another round of boisterous laughter. He picked up Elrhain like his wife showed him earlier and tossed him up in the air.
The two women blanched, but the big guy expertly caught Elrhain without even the slightest discomfort. Then, up and down again and again, he played with the little boy.
It reminded Elrhain of the thrill rides back on Earth. He quite liked those. So he giggled away. Gradually, he found himself in an uncontrollable fit of laughter. Another natural reaction of this body, he assumed. But he didn’t mind. It made his cute act feel genuine instead.
Soon, he, too, grew tired. He yawned mightily, and the barbarian finally put him to rest on the soft crib bedding, just as gently as he did with Agwyn.
He whispered a few more sweet nothings to them both and then, being pulled by Agwyn’s mother, left the room with the ladies.
“So…” Agwyn asked. “What do you think?”
“Did you see how they both followed him out the door? I’m telling you, they are all married!”
Agwyn slapped him hard and refused to talk for the rest of the day.


Chapter 6 - Secrets of Baby Speak

“Did you see how valiant he was! How he communicated seamlessly with our daughter with nothing but eye-glances?” Bromwyn, the current chieftain of the Earthloch clan and the proudest father and father-in-law on the disc, exclaimed boisterously while walking down the hallway. 
“Yes, honey. For the fifth time, we did.” His wife, Cyra Lou Earthloch, replied in exasperation. This was one thing about her husband that really ticked her off. Once excited, this fellow would talk about the same topic over and over again until the listener’s ears were bleeding.
“He made the warrior’s promise to me! And he doesn’t even know what it is.” The chieftain said. He slammed his fist on his pecs, “A true man! Even if he has pitiful potential, no son-in-law of the Earthloch’s will stay like that forever. By the way,”
Bromwyn turned towards Elrhain’s mother with the tone of his voice shifting, “Eluned… was it? Why are you still draped in a servant’s garb?”
The petite woman looked unsure how to answer that. “I... My lord, I’ve been wearing this most of my life. I don’t know… what else to.”
“Preposterous! You’ve had your sigil removed, no? Hunter Dofnald will also finish the blood quenching of his totem blade any day now. We have given you the right to a surname for a month already! I expect you to live up to that honour. This,” He moved his hand up and down towards the nervous Eluned, “Is shameful.”
Eluned didn’t know what to do, so she instinctively bowed her head and apologized.
Bromwyn facepalmed, “You… You are a noble house’s matriarch now. Any more subservience is-,”
He was about to go on another tirade when his wife, at last, interrupted him. “Now, now, be nice to her, dear. She is our in-law. Besides, do you think you can suddenly wear noble garbs like the Yuriels do if by chance our title increases?”
Bromwyn found it painful to breathe just thinking about it. ‘Those tight clothes covering their entire body. And not even armour!?’
He shook his head frantically.
Cyra smiled, then looked towards Eluned warmly, “Eluned, my dear, follow me to my chamber after this. I’ve already told the watches, so you don’t have to keep watch on the kids this afternoon. We have so many things to discuss, you and I. And since you can take your time learning the etiquette of nobles, you should at least put in the effort to show us you are changing, no?”
Eluned found it hard to refuse the soft-spoken Cyra.
The chieftainess, after seeing Eluned nod hesitantly, clapped her hands in joy, “Perfect!” She then led the confused former servant to her chamber before Bromwyn could begin his tirade on the valiant Elrhain for the sixth time that day. 
******
“I’ve noticed something.” Elrhain suddenly said.
“What?” Agwyn paused her movements. She was practising jumping on all fours. Over the previous month, her stamina had improved tremendously, and she was eager to try out new physical skills. Elrhain, on the other hand, gave up after day four, much to Agwyn’s disdain. 
When he told her, ‘I heard exercising as babies stunt growth’, she practically spat on him. Then she saw the logic in his words. The reminder also stopped Agwyn from over-exerting her tender muscles.
“Annie… Can you sing me a song?” He made the strange request with an earnest gaze.
Agwyn wanted to ask why but didn’t. She was sure she’d have the answer soon. And she had, in fact, been missing music a lot lately.
“*cough*cough* Don’t get your hopes up, okay? I haven’t practised singing at all since… since we died. Will any song do?” She asked. She was feeling rather shy to perform after so long but didn’t want to let Elrhain know.
“Sure.” His face was the image of concentration as his eager eyes met hers.
So she began, “Twinkle Twinkle little star~
…. …. ….
….. What you are!” And stopped after completing the nursery rhyme. She turned her glittery eyes towards him in expectation.
“Huh? What you say?” Elrhain was surprised.
Agwyn pounced on him with an inaudible screech. 
“Wha-! Wait, I have a good reason!”
By the time she let go, Elrhain had scratches all over his face, hands and neck.
“Explain.” That was all she said before retreating. But her eyes promised that if she was not satisfied by the answer, the bloodshed would continue.
Elrhain squinted, rubbing the places that got scratched to lessen the pain. “Ouch, you resort to violence too easily, or were you actually taking advantage of me? You know that’s a real turn off -Wait! Geez, stop hitting me. I’ll explain. You remember the first time we woke up here?”
Agwyn nodded grumpily.
“We’ve been speaking to each other in front of our mothers all the time. You ever wonder why they don’t find it strange, two toddlers having such long conversations? No matter how unknown the language or how undeveloped our vocal speech is, they should at least realize it’s a language. Unless they are that dumb.”
She nodded repeatedly.
“But they don’t. Now I think I know why.” That got her full attention. She had already expected this charade to be one of those peculiar ‘investigations’ he had been doing for the past month. Like trying out all the Harry Potter spells to see if they worked.
They didn’t.
“The first time we woke up, there was this blaring static in our heads like someone was blaring a broken bullhorn in our brains, and it was really hard to speak or think. But now, that blare is long gone. Annie, I want you to guess what I’m thinking about right now.”
“Uhh… Dog, Alien Comet, Suicide Forest, Amazon Trainforest… ahh!”
“Yes! All correct! Okay, we need to try this a few more times.” Elrhain was positively thrilled. This was the first real controllable contact they had with the supernatural.
They tried numerous other things, and almost every time, they could divine what the other was thinking. Frankly, it was starting to creep Elrhain out. Then, to his absolute joy,
“Wrong!” Elrhain cried in the middle of one test.
“Huh? It wasn’t the Norwegian Butter Crisis?” Agwyn asked with a squint in her eyes.
“Nope! It was the Unflooding of the Netherlands. This time, I wasn’t actively trying to transmit my thoughts to you, so you got it wrong!” He replied with a cheer.
“That means… We still have privacy? What would we need privacy for?” Agwyn asked in trepidation, her eyes glossed over into an unnerving look.
Elrhain started, before strongly rebuking her. “Agent Annie, you are going down an extreme path of no return. Autocracy is never the answer! Let’s get back on topic.”
He wiped off the sweat from his forehead as Agwyn glared back and continued with his deduction, “This… link that we have. We can somewhat jam it if we concentrate. And that fact has the answer to why mother never considered us demon babies.”
He cleared his throat just as Agwyn had a few moments ago, “This time, I will sing, and halfway through, I will try to restrict the link. Are you ready?”
“Yes! Can you sing ‘Never gonna give you up?’” Agwyn perked up; the rage she felt was all but forgotten at this point and was replaced with anticipation.
“… sure, why not? Okay, here goes.
~We’re no strangers to loo~ve. You know the rules, and So. Do. I!”
Agwyn started clapping along with the famous rhythm, but then something weird happened.
“Agoo, da di~ Ughy Angaa goo.”
She first thought something was wrong with her hearing. But the “Guchi goo’s” continued!
“Stop!” She screamed. Elrhain looked like a hyper-excited baby bouncing up and down as he got too into the song. But the tone and the sounds were completely wrong!
When she realized that Elrhain wasn’t stopping, she tackled him down pushed her palms on his mouth. “Stop!”
Elrhain calmed down from the high at Agwyn’s high handedness, then bobbed his head. Agwyn slowly removed her hands before asking, “Was that what we really sound like?”
“Yup! If either of us stops the link, we won’t be able to understand each other. At least until we learn this world’s language.”
“This mental link… Do you think we can speak telepathically?” Agwyn asked. 
“Let’s find out!  Now, do this.”
The little girl closed her eyes and concentrated according to Elrhain’s instructions. 
Now that she knew what to look for… indeed, there was this strange… tunnel? Leading away from her head into the infinite void of the mind.
“You see it, don’t you? That tunnel-like structure in our mind.”
“Yes.”
“That’s the best part! To answer your question, I don’t know if we are telepathic. But just think of the possibilities; the very fact that we have in-built magic in our heads opens up so many new doors! Who knows what else kind of psychic stunts we can pull with this. By the way, does the structure in your mind look familiar to you?” This time Elrhain’s face turned serious.
“Now that you mention it… it kind of looks like the comm line app icon? But not quite. There’s so much fog...”
“… as I thought, it’s not just me being nostalgic.” He shook Agwyn’s shoulder to wake her up from her trance, “You think… we brought this with us when we crossed over?”
Agwyn’s eyes turned wide in realization, “The blast! The Gigantomachy!”
“Let’s not get our hopes up. We still have a LOT to research. You’ll stop forcing us to waste time playing bodybuilder and cooperate, right?”
“My dearest friend of four exciting decades, did you come up with all this just to quit exercising?” Agwyn asked with an exasperated sigh.
“Wha- Is that how you see me? I’m trying to be honest here! This could be the answer to every question we had over the past month and possibly reveal the mysteries of the universe! I would, like, never- “
“I get it. You don’t have to say any more.” Agwyn shook her tiny head, her face clouded with disappointment.
“What? I’m absolutely not lying.” Elrhain looked offended, so much so that Agwyn suspected he had practised making that very expression while she was not aware.
“… forget it. Whatever your motivations are, the results are what matters.” She mumbled under her breath.
“Exactly! Though I still think you misunderstand something about my integrity.”
They spent the rest of the day testing out various possibilities. Elrhain’s list was exhaustive. It would take the better part of another month, considering their baby stamina, to complete everything he could think of right at the top of his head, not to mention the constant stream of new things to try out that barraged his mind.
They didn’t even remember their nightly meal or when Elrhains mom returned since they were so groggy in the magic.
The next day,
Agwyn was in a contemplative mode. When Elrhain asked what was wrong, she just smirked. “Did you see what your mother was wearing yesterday?”
“Ah… That was animal fur and hide, right? This world is kind of primitive. It looks kinda lewd…. Also, have you seen any metal-wares since we arrived? Only wood, stone, bones and clay.”
“That’s not the point. She was wearing the same thing as the other maids.” Agwyn hinted.
“… are we still talking about that? Does it actually matter? She could be the wet-nurse concubine for all we know….” Elrhain said, annoyed.
Before Agwyn could scream blasphemy at him and go into a lengthy explanation on ‘the whys’ it most definitely mattered, the door to the room opened up, and the lady in question bounced in.
She donned a silky shawl over a pristine white fur robe that reached her ankles.
Elrhain face-palmed, feeling extremely tired.
Agwyn threw the pillow out of the crib, furious.
The woman looked bewildered at the blue baby’s sudden aggressive behaviour. Still, her eyes moved on to her own son, who was trying to do a baby version of an ‘It is what it is’ shrug.
She smiled and hummed a gentle tune. Or was she just speaking? It could have just been the singsong language. He could never really distinguish when she was speaking or singing a lullaby.
The bed under him vanished as he went deeper into the thought. He was picked up. He assumed it was already time for feeding, so he closed his eyes and made a suckling motion with his mouth. He’d been getting awfully hungry with all the scientific thinking he had been doing—a far cry from his initial reaction of horror and then numbness to the event. 
He actually looked forward to it now; his brain needed the sustenance. Contemplation was hard work, after all.
Yet the sweet nectar and the touch of the soft cherry never came. He felt his body turning sideways, then rotating clockwise while he was left-side-up.
‘What the..!’ He finally noticed something was wrong. It wasn’t his mother who had picked him up, but an unfamiliar young man.
The stranger had light brown hair and deep blue eyes. The face was clean-shaven, with the curly hair on his head glistening like some Italian shampoo model’s. The only irregularity Elrhain could discern at a glance were the man’s bangs, which were of slightly different colour, the dab grey of stone. The young man also protruding fangs like a vampire.
He was currently looking over Elrhain like he was a commodity in the Transylvania juice market, whether or not Elrhain had any defects.
The irritated little boy felt like throwing up. He had been upside down for a second too long, and the rough treatment was getting on his nerves. 
So he did, all over the man’s frowning face.
“Blergh~,”
He heard the loud voice of the woman coming from somewhere and regretted it immediately. What if the man let go and Elrhain turned into a baby pancake?
Yet the man didn’t. His grip, which was considerably gentle now that he noticed, didn’t even flinch.
Elrhain was no longer sideways, so he didn’t have trouble looking straight into the man’s eyes. There was no uneasiness or disgust there. Only the slight crunch of the nose, probably because of the smell of the retch.
Not knowing what to do, Elrhain just repeated his earlier strategy with the barbarian, “Agoo…?”
The man tilted his head, not even bothering to wipe away the vomit all over him. That was until Elrhain’s mother brought a leafy rag from somewhere and wiped them both clean while very clearly complaining.
‘Ah, I got some on myself too.’
His mother was giving the man the stink eye as she removed the confused baby from his hands. The man just scratched his head awkwardly.
When they were both removed of almost all the stains, the woman shooed away the man towards the door very rudely. She sounded pretty angry when she saw him flipping and angling Agwyn over like he did Elrhain.
The baby girl had handled herself far better, though, as was always the case with her and X-treme sports.
There was a one-sided heated exchange from the young lady, and finally, reluctantly, the man relented. He gave one last pat on Elrhain and Agwyn’s head and was about to leave. But then he looked as if he recalled something and suddenly turned around.
Elrhain watched on in awe and shame as the young man simply walked up to the fussing young mother and planted a long, deep kiss on the lady’s plump rosy lips.
One breath,
Two, three… twenty… Three hundred and Fifty…
Elrhain stopped counting. Even a Frenchman would blush in shame. The little boy shied his eyes away, desperately trying to hide a twitch of embarrassment at what the adults were doing in the presence of two highly intelligent babies.
“Bravo!” Agwyn, on the other hand, cheered hysterically. If she could whistle, she would have done so until she got arrested for indecent conduct.
“And don’t say this is an affair! I won’t believe it. You have the same eyes and grey bangs as that wonderful man.”
Elrhain didn’t respond. His gaze just followed the back of the confident man out of the room. All that he left behind was a scene of carnage, Elrhain’s furiously blushing mother fumbling about her tasks with fidgety fingers, weak knees, and a wistfully in-love gaze.


Chapter 7 - Window to Another World

“Why are we so small?” Agwyn peered out of the window towards the bright blue sky with a pouty face. The warm rays of sunshine licked her scrunched-up nose like a spotlight on her adorable smallness. “I don’t want to be small anymore!”
Elrhain sat beside her, squinting his eyes at some strange flying creatures in the sky. They had wings like a bat but paws like a cat. “It means we get to live longer.” The boy mumbled.
She didn’t want to hear that. “Ahhhh…” She screamed loudly as she threw the pillow out of the crib with surprising force.
Elrhain’s mother was practising some strange dance in the middle of the room, and the pillow hit her square on the bosom. The woman reeled at the sudden hit before staring at Agwyn with bewilderment.
The little girl felt terrible about that. This pillow throwing habit should be rid of before it could turn worse. But, “There’s absolutely nothing to do! I can’t see any more improvements no matter how much I train in this damned crib… I want to go out and run, I want to play with my Plasma-lance! I wanna swiiiiim ahhh~.”
“Who was it that called me hasty when I wanted to stand up without learning to crawl?” The other baby smirked. She wished she could punch a hole in his charming face, but then she won’t be able to look into those dreamy eyes.
“I thought we’d grow up in no time! Ten months ago, it was summer, and it still is. Exactly how far from the star is this bloody planet?” She pouted harder as if that would solve all her problems. It did back in her previous life, when she was a cute little girl, her parent’s favourite princess.
“Well, people living in Norway aged no slower than everyone else. So I don’t see how longer seasons can affect our lifespan. I will guess it would be the genetics then, and not if summer is longer. But maybe it does depend; Who knows.” Elrhain shrugged. Agwyn always felt jealous of how a little intrigue could satisfy him so much. He wouldn’t complain as long as he could mentally analyse some new aspect of this world.
She, on the other hand, needed physical activities.
It was a habit ingrained in her soul for 75 long years. First as an interest, later for training and her career, and finally as an excellent hobby of combat sports. She went through more forms punching another human than she could poke a stick at, and now it was coming to bite her in her violet peachy bottom.
Agwyn slapped the flab on her tummy in annoyance, “Hey… how old do you think we are in Earth terms?”
“Pre-genetic-enhancement? My best guess is a month.” Elrhain dodged her legs as she kicked them up and down in frustration. “A week after I was born, I think? I measured my body. If my head started on this stick of the crib’s fence, then my curled legs ended squarely on… this one.”
Agwyn half-closed her eyes, thinking of the many weird experiments Elrhain had devised because of sheer boredom.
Elrhain slapped one fence bar where his head started and pointed to another. His toes now went a little past the indicated stick. His legs were still curled, though. Meaning he grew. But only slightly.
“I want to hover skate….” Agwyn groaned. “I also want to eat meat.”
“Or vegetables, rice, fruit, or anything else solid.” Elrhain groaned with her. Agwyn smiled. Food was about the only thing the other baby complained about these days.
*******
Agwyn didn’t feel the déjà vu today. These last few months, she felt like every day was the same.
Get up, bother Elrhain, get fed, try to exercise, listen to Elrhain talk about what he discovered that day. Then came the feeding again. Let herself be harassed by her or Elrhain’s father or mother or all of them at the same time, then complain about all the unfairness a baby must face, drink milk for the last time and go to sleep after pecking Elrhain on the cheek.
She needed to invent another phrase for super-boring because she didn’t know if her current one, ‘Watching weeds grow,’ was up to the task. 
But today was different. Agwyn crawled to where Elrhain was sitting, near the edge of the crib facing the window.
There was a simmering rectangle of runes on the window frames. Agwyn could guess their uses, and it was...
“Fascinating…” She heard Elrhain say. She agreed.
The constant prattle of heavy rain outside brought a calmness like no other to her mind. She could feel the icy touch of the humid wind and hear the cacophony of frogs and insects out.
Yet no rain came in; the water droplets rolled down the window plane like they hit glass. But there was nothing there.
The servant who set up those runes also did something to the crib. It felt warm and cosy, like she was constantly being hugged by her mother. But the protection on the window and the crib didn’t stop the refreshing flow of the moist rainy wind.
‘This is the life.’ Agwyn almost melted into the fluffy pillow.
“Do you think the year passed?” She asked the other baby.
“… or the season. In some regions back on Earth, they divided the calendar into six seasons. If this is the monsoon, then it should come after summer. Then again, this is a fantasy world.” Elrhain said.
Agwyn used her tiny fingers to count, “That’s… 1800 days to a year then?”
“Yeah, well, we are assuming the number of days a month is like Earth’s. Maybe in this world, it’s 120 days a month. Or summer is divided into bright and dark parts like in the Earth’s Arctic winter, with each being as long as a normal season.”
“Ughhhh.” She snatched away one of Elrhain’s pillows and pressed her face against it.
******
“Winter isn’t ending!” Agwyn looked up at the dusky sky behind the curtain of snowfall. Her body felt a chill, and she curled the fluffy blanket up tighter around her body. She felt like a kitten, and she was not happy about it.
If she counted by Earth time-spans, then the sky had been like that for two whole years.
“It looks like the long days and nights of the Arctic… I don’t even think this planet is orbiting any sun. Or if it is, then there should be multiple.” Elrhain spoke with a sigh. Agwyn grumbled and agreed, but she didn’t have to like it. 
Speaking of suns.
The window in their room never showed any sun or suns directly, but they could see multiple moons and the infinite stars at night.
“Do you think that because of this weird day and night cycle? I guess a single sun would be  hard-pressed to fuck the seasons up so bad, so randomly.” She asked with a purr, even if she could deduce the answer herself. She simply wanted to hear Elrhain speak.
The boy had gone quieter since the snow started falling.
“The first ten months of this cold season was normal. Then it was like midday for one Earth year. After that, it was dusky. It’s been eleven months, and the sky is getting darker. The next Earth year should be like the night sky. Then… what happens when the sun rises again? Will it stay like the dawn?” Elrhain had a melancholic look on his face.
Agwyn sure hoped not. That would be apocalyptically tedious for her. “I don’t want that….”
“Well, we’ll see.” The other baby shook off his foul mood and crawled up to her side. He squirmed into the fluffy blanket like a small ferret seeking love and warmth. She felt his heat warming her as well as his soft hands wrapped her up in a tight burrito hug.
Agwyn smiled, “Hang on. They’ll be here soon.”
She heard a sleepy growl. She knew the cold was affecting Elrhain far worse than her. But not all was bad.
Her feet reached a few longer on the crib fences now, and they had long uncurled their legs. But even she felt too lethargic to start practice walking right away. Even though she knew she could if she tried.
And the other good thing was-
“Agwyn!----eat----Elrhain,-----milk, food!---Mother--” Agwyn’s mother came in holding a steaming pot full of delicious stew.
A few servants followed behind her with the other dishes and necessities like bowls, cups, and plates. The barbarian, her father, followed behind with a bearded old man.
Elrhain’s mother came in last. She had grown plumper by the seasons. His father, the romantic young man, had last visited 2 months or 60 Earth days ago before disappearing to God knows where. 
She kind of missed the young man. His straightforwardness with Elrhain’s mother was so consistently interesting. She was keeping notes. Elrhain was preoccupied with other things.
He had once wondered if Agwyn’s mom’s lower half would turn into ice if winter came. She was curious too. Yet even as the weather grew colder with the darkening of the skies, her watery legs remained flowing.
“Eiiigh…” She felt Elrhain make another unintelligible noise. When his face came out of their burrow of blankets, he was smiling.
Agwyn shared his happiness. The smell of the food was mouthwatering.
It had been a while since they started eating food other than their mothers’ milk. Agwyn felt half her depression and anxiety melt away like ice on a volcano on that fated day, the moment she sipped the sweet juice of that purplish lemony orange thing.
Gulp!!
Elrhain spoke with some mashed meat in his mouth; he had no trouble chewing with his tender baby teeth. 
“The beings of this world must have soooo many more taste receptacles active! It always blows me away, this depth of flavour.”
Agwyn agreed and gave her own opinion, “Imagine what would happen if they actually knew there were spices other than common herbs and salt!”
“You! Don’t tempt me, you little devil.” Elrhain chided her as he tried to swat away the barbarian’s finger from his cheek. He currently sat on the elderly man’s lap. While it was her mother who was feeding Agwyn one finger-full at a time.
Elrhain’s mommy had taken up the duty of adding ingredients from the stewing pot to each of their bowls and plates. If she ignored the servants, then this would be the perfect family meal of rural society.
“… It’s so unusual.” Elrhain suddenly said.
“What?” Agwyn asked. She swallowed the soft starchy mashed vegetable in her mouth. Her weak teeth still had trouble chewing anything more complicated than pudding, unlike Elrhain. She looked at the approaching spoon of broth in instinctive anticipation, the anticipation of when she too could chow down on meat.
She once tried to drink the soup from an unsuspecting bowl left on the side on her own; the meaty chunks were just too tempting. The heat hurt her tongue, gums and everything so bad she didn’t stop crying until she fell asleep in exhaustion.
“This food is so rich and flavourful, all this lean meat. I bet it is packed full of nutrients way above a human infant’s safe limit. Normal babies would have so many problems. What if these tribal people are being over-enthusiastic and…?”
Agwyn didn’t share his concerns, “We age at least eight times slower than pre-gene-modded humans back on Earth. And we aren’t as inactive as turtles. I say this is another one of the ‘Bright sides’ of this boring world you’ve been listing.”
“Would be nice if true. But I’m willing to bet my collection of glowing socks that this world is anything but boring. Wait till we’re older. I’m going to re-enact the lord of the rings if it’s the last thing I do.”
Agwyn imagined the scene in her head and giggled out loud. 
They didn’t know what the adults were speaking except a few prevalent words, but they looked merry as always. Even the grumpy grandpa smiled now and then when Elrhain tried to appropriate more meat for himself.
Their family didn’t always come for meals like this, and they didn’t always eat so much. Perhaps once a night every few days. But it cheered her up so much. She hoped they would come more often.
She also saw a childish smile floating on Elrhain’s baby face every night they spent in this warm atmosphere.
Agwyn loved it when Elrhain smiled.
*******
Today, like ever, Agwyn looked out of the window with Elrhain by her side. The scenery outside was no longer a blanket of white.
The last snow had melted a few days ago. The final Earth-year, or season, of winter wasn’t eternal dawn like they had feared but like the first winter season—typical day and night.
It was spring now, with flowers sprouting and butterflies flapping. It cheered up Agwyn sometimes when she noticed the butterflies were the flowers, and the flowers could swim in the water.
“Do you think spring will also be weird like winter?” Agwyn asked.
“I don’t know, but I would guess not,” Elrhain replied. His face was a lot healthier than a few months ago. “If we weren’t born at the end of a weird summer season, and if the monsoon, autumns, and late-autumns were the regular seasons, spring should also be ten to twelve months. Winter is weird no matter where you go, so I guess it is an anomaly and not the norm.”
Agwyn clapped the insides of her fists together, “So ten times more?”
“… Yes. Ten times boring like you said, and ten times more to live.” Elrhain said with a smile that reached his ears. “Unless there’s fantasy plague, or this world’s magic of medicine is still at the Palaeolithic age. Or there are us-eating monsters, or tribal wars, or….”
“I get it! Don’t be such a sour-butt.” Agwyn put her palms on his mouth to stop all the unlawful jinxing. She wasn’t sure if she liked Elrhain when he put a wet towel on her cheerful mood like this.
“By the way,” Elrhain said with a funny glint in his eyes. “Aren’t you forgetting something?”
“… what?” She looked back in confusion.
When she saw Elrhain pat her legs, her eyes turned wide in shock. The anticipation gushed out of her being like nuclear radiation and almost suffocated Elrhain with positivity. 
Oh, wait, that was her hugging him too hard.
“We can play sumo now!”
“Absolutely not!” The other baby screamed back.
Of course, she was joking. She’d have to learn to walk first. But oh, walk, she will.
She will walk, run, skip, hop, jump enough for a million lifetimes. Only then will she play her sumo!


Chapter 8 - The Seasons Call for Love

“Ewuned, dance!” Agwyn spoke in toothy, broken Uorian. She held her hands up towards Eluned with her puppy dog eyes.
“Eluned is busy, my love. Why don’t you play with my cute Elrhain for now? He looks like he could use your company.” The older woman grinned as she ruffled Agwyn’s blue hair. They had shifted into a shade purplish in recent seasons.
“Ellie sits there, think it fun. He is weak! No pway!” Agwyn pouted. She had a difficult time communicating with the adults in this convoluted language. It differed altogether from Earth Common so much she was unsure if it was even a language and not some other fantasy equivalent designed to kick transmigrators in the behind.
She hoped Elrhain’s mother, whose name she had learned a few seasons ago along with all their close families, would continue to teach her the dance. Much more interesting than deciphering words and symbols.
But her hopes waned when she saw Eluned’s eyes twitch.
“S-Sorry, dear. I have, um, these shells to carve! It’s important for the clan. I’ll dance later, okay?” To be fair, Agwyn had bothered the poor woman at virtually every chance she had recently. Asking unending questions was Elrhain’s job, and hers were to stick to their parents like an overly attached husky.
“… okay!” She reluctantly let Eluned’s sleeves go, much to the latter’s relief. Agwyn had tried to contain these urges once upon a time. ‘But I can’t help it! I have so much energy and nothing to do.’
Now she mostly gave up and just went with the flow.
She reflected back to what Elrhain had concluded on this matter, ‘Our hormones make us childish and dumb.’
‘Che, what does he know!’ Agwyn rubbed her nose as she watched Eluned carve shell after shell into elegant shapes. There was already a heap of them on a twig basket on the side. Another bowl gathered all the shell powder and fragments.
“Why do you talk funny?” Elrhain asked her in almost fluent Uorian. The cheeky young boy now looked like a three-year-old. And his silly baby-face made his derisive look at Agwyn’s lisp even more unpleasant.
“… That should be my question! How am I supposed to say ‘Like’ when I have to pronounce ‘L’ from the back of my throat? It shouldn’t exist, this awful sound.” She shot back in Earth common. 
Elrhain shrugged, and her mood worsened even more. 
It must have shown on her face, as Elrhain made the ‘can’t help it’ expression. “… It just better fits the biology of these ‘Dhionne’ than a traditional language from Earth. Want to practice with me?”
“… fine.” She hated how easy she was. But it was better than lying around mopping.
Elrhain thought for a bit before saying, “I’ve noticed this, but you don’t always get the sounds incorrect. Only occasionally. Like, you say ‘thuns’ and ‘suns’ in the same sentence.”
Agwyn made confused baby cries.
“… okay, so we gotta start from the identification step first. Let’s see if your lisp learned or natural.”
***
Agwyn wasn’t a poor learner. In fact, she was considered highly perceptive. In her former life, she had graduated from top academic establishments with flying colours even without the help of her influential family.
She knew nine variants of common, including the dialects from East Asia, Oceania, Central Europe, India, and Beta-00 Asteroid belt colony districts. It was a prerequisite for her line of work.
Yet now, 
“I gib up.” She tumbled onto their new bed. It felt considerably fluffier on her skin than the crib. It was about seven times larger too. She wished to shout her favourable impressions about the bed out loud, to tell Cyra and Eluned how much she adored this new furniture. Even the legs of the bed were pretty, with carved runes and painted glyphs. 
… but all that came out of her squished mouth were “Phwaffiness” and “Yeg.”
“Ey, don’t let it bother you too much. Most kids with speech impediments get over it by their early teens.” Elrhain scratched his head. They had conducted a series of tests on her funny-talk problem and decided it was nothing to worry about. That it would just get better with time. “Then again, no dhionne word sounds the same. The extra vocal organs also increase the number of phonetic sounds we can make. It will get better with practice.”
She wanted it to get better right now. 
Agwyn knew she had it in her. 
For example, she could say words like ‘Daddy!’ fine. But sometimes, when she tried to say Dog, it turned into ‘Gog.’ Emulation became a whistled ‘Memulation’, and Ellie turned into an adorable ‘Ewwie!’
Agwyn punched the cushion with all the rage of an angry hamster just thinking about it. At this point, she didn’t even know if she was just mad about the situation or simply membarrassed.
“Ahhh!” Agwyn muffled a shriek.
She felt her dignity as a 75-year-old senior break down to pieces. ‘No… it’s a hundred and five. It took us thirty Earth years to go from a baby to a toddler! Thirty years, and I can’t even speak this effing language.’
“By the way,” She suddenly thought of an important question she just had to ask despite all her huffing and puffing, “Have you finished learning the Uorian letters?”
It was now Elrhain’s turn to feel gloomy. 
“… no. These Dhionne make Traditional Chinese look like a piece of cake. I can’t figure out if they are like Inuit languages such as Inuktitut syllabics, Cuneiform, or Hieroglyphics. Are they poly-synthetic? Or simply like the old English and pretending to be Arabic? And why the hell do I have to know magic to learn letters?!”
“You get my pain now, don’t you, Ellie?” Agwyn asked with a knowing grin.
“… would you say our pain is the same when I suffer from a language that uses both an abugida and an alphabet while you cry after pronouncing ‘Language’ as ‘Langoonu’?” Elrhain looked positively offended at the very notion.
Agwyn pouted, not understanding what an abugida was. 
“What if the other kids bully me?” 
“You can break stone bowls to pieces like it is a biscuit!” Elrhain threw his palms up in the air. Then he frantically shook his hands in front of his face, “But don’t do that to the bullies! What if they beat me up in revenge when they can’t fight you!”
“… I won’t, okay? I was just worried I won’t be able to make any friends.”
“That’s what’s bothering you?” Elrhain asked, dumbfounded.
“Yup. In our previous life, we really flopped up on our social skills, right? This time I want to make some real friends without all the backstabbing and boot-licking.” Agwyn scrunched up her nose as she recalled all the time her trust was broken by so-called companions. And not just friends, she had a horrible eye for lovers too. It’s like she went out of her way to find the sleaziest scum-bags to fall in love.
“Well, good luck, I suppose. Your dad looks like he is someone important, like your mother from our previous life. That’s bound to attract some opportunistic folks. Even I don’t want to meet someone like Naomi again because everyone is lusting after your family influence.” The boy shuddered at the very notion.
Agwyn couldn’t fault him. Her girlfriend of six years had been the worst kind of asshole imaginable, the kind that forced you to choose between love, friends, and family. And she had been blind to it all until reality stabbed her in her sides. What’s worse is, Naomi almost ruined her relationship with Elrhain and her mother.
Actually, things were pretty awkward between her and her best friend for a few good years after that event. Agwyn shivered in disgust and hurriedly pushed her mind away from that nightmarish past.
“Speaking of my dad,” She said. “Wasn’t he supposed to visit us today? Eluned even dolled us up.”
Agwyn moved over closer to Elrhain and patted his shiny cheeks. Eluned had put some sort of magical makeup on them both after a good round of washing and bathing. The powder caused her white skin to look less jarring and made Elrhain’s honey-coloured skin sparkle like real honey.
Agwyn had to stop herself hard from licking him.
They also both wore matching clothes made of beautiful leaves and animal fur. They had little tiaras on their head made out of some kind of bone, and shiny sapphire bracelets that clinked on their arms. 
Their attires were white, blue, and olive. Agwyn’s robe looked like a frock tutu and had nicely scribbled runes along the hem. Elrhain, on the other hand, wore a simple tunic and trousers with similar magical rune-things. He said that robes were too baggy, and he felt unsafe in them without good ol’fashioned pants.
Agwyn couldn’t guess why. 
She had no trouble running around and doing cartwheels in hers.
“Yeah, even mother is all pretty today,” Elrhain said. “Her dress looks like a Greek Chiton, right?”
Agwyn scrutinized the woman from afar. Eluned had stopped engraving the shells since a while ago. Now she just squatted there, knees together with both hands resting on her cheeks, looking on and off at the door. “If they made Chiton from pelt, that is.”
Agwyn suddenly saw Eluned jerk up as she discussed how this primitive tribe could turn leather into silky smooth clothes. 
The older woman rose up in a rush and almost tripped, catching the wall to support herself. 
The door to the room opened, and Agwyn’s father came in, followed by a tag of servants.
“Fantastic! They’re prepared for the rite. Eluned, you have surpassed yourself tailoring such clothes with such short notice.” Bromwyn clapped his hand loud; the boom was strong enough to cause a mini shock wave.
Eluned blushed. “N-No, the chieftainess also helped.”
The larger man chuckled as he strode to the bed and picked up a confused Agwyn, “Don’t undermine yourself. I know what my wife is capable of more than anyone else. The attire for today’s ritual is best left to the mother who can actually weave, rather than my clumsy queen.”
“Hi, daddee!” Agwyn spoke, her eyes turning into crescents at Bromwyn’s silly grin. She was still clutching the cushion to her chest as she greeted, “Good Evewing.”
“Good Evening to you too, my valiant princess. Today is a big day. Are you excited?” Bromwyn booped her nose with his giant index.
Agwyn saw Eluned fixing some edges of Elrhain’s clothes through the corner of her eyes. He was listening attentively in on their exchange. They made eye contact, and she gave the boy an understanding nod.
“What happening, daddee?” She asked, trying to grip hold of Bromwyn’s offending finger.
“Aha, I forget you are yet babes sometimes. How clumsy of me.” Bromwyn slapped his forehead. Agwyn wondered if a slap so strong could leave marks in metal. 
“Your mothers asked us all to keep this a secret since they wanted it to be a big surprise. I am taking you both out of this courtyard today for your inaugural rite. It’s time for the entire clan to see how heroic my two little warriors are.”
“Eh, weally?!” Agwyn’s heartbeat sped up. She almost threw away the cushion in delight, about to ask for details.
Elrhain beat her to the punch, “Really? We can finally leave this stifling room, big guy?” He left his protesting mother behind and grabbed onto Bromwyn’s Viking kilt.
Her father just grinned at that, “Excited too, are you? Where ever did you learn to speak such complicated words as stifling? And yes,” He ruffled Elrhain’s bushy hair, much to Eluned’s dismay. 
“Father has ordered a glorious feast of the final hunt on spring, to celebrate the coming of summer and three strong cycles lived for the dearest prince and princess of our great clan! You will be engaged at the banquet in the presence of all the gallant heroes of Earthloch Siorrakty; the entire county will relish in honour of your happiness! The ancestors shall grant you the future of our clan, and the spirits will bless your love for hundreds of cycles to come!”
“Ah!”“Eh?”
Agwyn felt like time had stopped. The pillow almost slipped out of her hands. Still, she clutched onto it even tighter by sheer impulse, as if it was the only thing that could keep her exploding thoughts grounded. 
She felt parched and drowned at the same time. Her breathing grew turbulent, and her mind cluttered like a broken tractor. As if a jester was prancing a waltz wearing spiky circus shoes on her tiny brain as the spongy organ over-clocked to decipher the meaning of Bromwyn’s words.
‘En-gagemento? What a peculiar word. It has Enga and Gement in one phrase. What do they mean? Rolls of the tongue weird… Egnagementing…’
“Agwyn, my daughter. Is something the matter? Oh! How silly of me once again. You don’t know what engagement means, do you?” Bromwyn’s faded voice came from here and faded there as if he was speaking from three rooms away. 
Agwyn only saw sparks twinkle in her shaky vision, but her dizzy noggin inevitably started grinding again at her father’s following words.
‘No, hang on a minute! Calm down, Agwyn. This is it! The answer to all the questions. So that’s why we were raised together!’
“Waists together? No, my virtuous daughter. That happens much in the future when you are of mature age.” Bromwyns voice abruptly turned tense. There was some other emotion in there, too, that Agwyn just couldn’t spot. 
“Engagement means becoming like your mother and me, or Eluned and Dofnald. It is the starting rite before the holy Matrimony is consummated. You will devote the rest of your lives together. You will one day even have sons or daughters of your own! 
… waists together, what an immoral way to put it. Who taught you that anyhow? I will reduce his bones into soup and drink of his misery! Was it a servant?”
‘Ah, did I misspeak raised together out loud? Wait, I’m going to m-marry him? S-Sons and Daughters!’
“Elrhain!” She could feel the steam rising from her blushing face as she heard Eluned’s worried cry. She looked down to find the boy sitting on the ground with a pale face. He looked up at her in marvel with hands that shook like a tuning fork.
“Huh!?” “Ew!?” They simultaneously let out ear-splitting confused yelps, much to the adults’ horror.
Before Agwyn could throw the pillow at Elrhain, though, he had already run out of the room into the hallway. Agwyn, finally coming to her senses, squiggled out of her father’s embrace and sprinted right after the escaping groom-to-be in maniacal glee.


Chapter 9 - Love in Retrospect
Elrhain sprinted past the corridor, tumbled out of the doorway, and bolted across the wooden trail that led to the courtyard's garden.
'Those no good primitive buffoons! Child marriage is illegal, dammit!' he wanted to roar, yell to their faces how absolute fools they were. 
His head was aching, and he couldn't think straight.
He stopped in front of the small pond at the end of the plank trail, grasping his temples in pain. The boy felt his knees go weak, and he plopped down flat on the grass bed with a gentle thump. His palms covered his red eyes as his legs now dangled on the damp slope. 
Elrhain lost control of his cluttered mind in a storm of contemplation.
'Why this, of all things….'
A distressed groan leaked from his lips as he was struggling to soothe his nerves. The spring wind caressed his skin and ruffled his clothes like a gentle bystander. But it only made him sleepier; he wished to just let himself fall into a black fade far away from reality.
'Mother will be angry.'
With his headache also becoming a dull throb, his mind inevitably drifted back to the shadows of his earlier life.
'I…'
*******
"Listen to me. Calm down and think for a second!" 
Memories flooded Elrhain's brain with relentless passion, and a picture from a lifetime ago played in front of his eyes like a black and white cinema reel. However, his eyes were still closed, but it was as if he could see, touch, and hear everything the visions presented him with clarity.
Once upon a time, Elrhain had desperately tried to stop Agwyn from making a grave mistake.
"Don’t touch me!” she shot around and slapped his hand off her shoulder; her eyes only showed disgust and not the usual playful smirk. “I thought you were my friend!”
“I am, and I always will be. I just don’t want you to regret-“
“Enough! You’d be thrilled if I broke up with Naomi, right? You could have me all to yourself, huh?”
“… Is that truly what you think of me?” Elrhain asked; the pang of pain in his voice that he tried heart and soul to repress slipped out nonetheless.
Agwyn clenched her fists, and an unsure look flashed past her quivering pupils. But she resolutely turned away, ignoring Elrhain’s plea, “You know nothing about her. So don’t act like you do. Please, I beg you. Don’t ruin this for me.”
Elrhain felt his blood run cold. He could no longer stop her, and she knew it. 
Even half an hour after she had left in this cold rainstorm, he just stood there, staring at the door with misplaced hope.
He thought he could still run out, maybe catch up to her and try to convince her one last time. But he knew it was too late. She would be having a pleasant supper with Naomi by now.
Elrhain didn’t think he could hold himself back from punching that she-devil’s nose in if he had to look at that phoney smile one more time. And that would really be the end of all things.
‘No!’ He slapped himself hard. ‘If it’s Mrs. Hildebrand, then maybe…!’
Elrhain knew that this decision would wipe out any and all chances of a repaired friendship, of love he had with Agwyn. Yes, he loved her. But he would rather she loathe him than see her hurt.
He used the federal minister’s personal line. A few soul-rendering seconds of beeps later, the call went through.
A woman, the spitting image of Agwyn’s just twenty years older, popped up on the screen. She looked fatigued, which was expected considering her job. Yet her eyes glinted with youthful sharpness. 
The minister was resting in an oval office. A giant insignia of the Collective was engraved in the marble wall behind her; the same insignia was embroidered on her sleek black office suit. 
The pitter-patter of rain Elrhain picked up from the other end formed a sad symphony with the downpour outside his own house, making him feel like he was drowning in ice with no escape.
His words caught in his throat, and refused to come out.
“… This better be important.” The other side spoke first in her signature coarse tone. But Elrhain saw the smirk on her face as she sipped her tea. Her eyes were urging him to just be out with it.
Elrhain hesitated for a few more moments, his brain telling him he was making the biggest mistake of his life, that he would lose his best friend. Yet his heart…
… burst out with words before he could stop himself. He spoke for five minutes straight and sent her all the letters and evidence he gathered in these two days regarding Naomi’s true allegiance. 
By the end, he was choking for breath and clutching the edge of the tablet. Even the air-conditional could not stop the outpour of cold sweat. 
This was it. This was all Elrhain could do now.
He watched the minister intently, waiting for a response. 
“… That foolish little girl.” Finally, he heard the other party speak with the tone of a lioness. 
The elder looked as if she had aged a decade in those short 5 minutes. Her relaxed attitude was long gone and what was left was animalistic fury. She slammed the desk hard with her fists, and the teacup cluttered to the side because of the impact.
The hardened minister suddenly let out a heavy sigh, leaning her forehead on her palms. The older woman sat there for a while as if all life had left her.
“Mrs Hildebrand?” Elrhain shouted into the line. He couldn’t see the other party’s face with the angle. Nevertheless, this was the first hint of frailty he had ever seen from the influential woman.
Of course, she was now not a minister of the Collective but a concerned mother.
“I’m fine.” The momentary respite gave Mrs Hildebrand a chance to gather her bearing. “Don’t worry. Leave the rest to me. I’ve already pinged an alert to the Agency. They should send out a command drone to her residence within the minute and will investigate the matter thoroughly.”
Elrhain slumped down on the hoverchair at the news, his shoulders sagging in relief. 
“Thank you.”
“I should be the one thanking you.” Mrs Hildebrand peered at him for a moment with a complicated expression. Even with the digital distance in between, her gaze was both sympathetic and apologetic. “Even though that girl… I can imagine how she reacted when you told her all this. Did she even listen till the end?”
Elrhain let out an empty laugh.
“Thank you, really.” Mrs Hildebrand bowed her head. “It must’ve been a painful decision. But I am glad she made a friend like you, no matter how unappreciative that lass is. Now I just hope she will listen to her agency supervisors. It’s better to be safe than sorry even if this all turns out to be a false positive.”
She was about to continue on but then suddenly jolted straight. A few breaths later, her face turned ghastly pale.
“Mrs Hildebrand? Is everything alright?” He asked, a bad premonition rising in his chest. Then, to his shock, he saw the older woman almost stumble as she stood up and she raced out of the office, the floating chair swivelling around aimlessly in her wake.
Her voice still came through the call. She must have been connected with an implant. “Plasma bolts!”
“What?!”
“The drone picked up traces of plasma being fired in her apartment! She’s not there, that reckless little—”
Elrhain didn’t hear the rest. He had already darted out of his suite and practically slid down the staircase to the car park.
The next few minutes played in a haze. Elrhain didn’t know how many traffic rules he broke but was certain he would have his licence revoked, and perhaps face prison terms after this.
The rain outside grew heavier as droplets slammed against the windshield with anger and vehemence. The rustling gale deadened the noise of traffic around him. The blare of sirens ringing from someplace far away was the sole thing that made it into his ears.
He could hardly concentrate on the road yet forced himself to hone in on the map. Any shortcut he could take, he took. The last few words of Agwyn and Mrs Hildebrand kept looping in his head like a haunted tape recorder.
‘Please, I beg you!’ 
‘She’s not there!’
He never believed in god. But right now, he hoped with all his being that there was one. That god was merciful.
“… They found her.” Mrs Hildebrand’s voice appeared from somewhere in the car, and the surrounding haze retreated like the night’s dark at sunrise. His brain fell out from autopilot mode, and he gasped in a gigantic breath. The hovercar almost spun out of the maglev road as he kicked down the brakes.
Elrhain searched around for the source of the voice and saw his tablet on the passenger seat. He must’ve thrown it there when he started driving. He didn’t even notice that he carried it down with him or that the line was still connected.
“How is she?!” Elrhain wished he could teleport himself to Agwyn’s side this instant.
Mrs Hildebrand’s eyes were red; there were traces of smudges and tears on her exquisitely make-up’d face. His eyes went to the car seat behind her on the screen. An individual in a black suit was talking frantically into another tablet on her right. The scenery flashed past outside the window-glass on her left, and he could only make out the raindrops sliding down the transparent surface.
The rain was mocking him. 
“… Hurt, but alive. They found her in the building’s parking lot, bleeding from her arms and belly. The agents caught Naomi Kristenn trying to escape towards the number nine underground shuttle hatch, the one that’s out of service. She turned herself in when she saw the Raptors and Stingrays in the sky.” The woman halted, speaking through gritted teeth, “I wish the Schlampe hadn’t!”
“W-where is she now?” That was all Elrhain asked before he hastily started the car again. Mrs Hildebrand didn’t disappoint and sent over a map marker.
“They are taking her to the Agency Hospital with a Medical Drone.” The woman whispered, “I’ve sent you the address. Meet me there but don’t force your way in. They will shoot you first before arresting you if you try to enter without authorization.”
It was 19 hours later that Elrhain could finally see Agwyn’s pale, injured visage again. He sat by her hospital bed, peeling an apple into a cute shape of a bunny. 
The hospital staff had harnessed the young lady with many medical apparatuses, especially in those areas with the melted flesh. The wires, tubes, and flashing screens made her look far worse than she actually was.
“I’m sorry.” She wept, her voice hoarse. But her eyes weren’t looking at him. Those betrayed hollow pupils stared at the ceiling as if in search of answers. Her tears had long dried, and she could only weep pain.
Elrhain stood up, shaking his head. The tall man strode to the window and pushed aside the curtains. The air conditioner was freezing the room, and he could use the warm sunshine after two sleepless days.
“You know,” he said, sliding open the glass panels. A pleasant breeze drifted in, bringing with it the fragrance of lavender. The rain yesterday seemed to have washed away all the stains of the city’s industrial wounds from the air.
“I always thought of you as my best friend.”
“I’m sorry.”
“But I made a mistake. I was greedy, impatient, and selfish. I shouldn’t have hoped for more. So how about right now, right here, we make a promise?” The patch of purple outside the hospital building looked magnificent in his tired sight. The numerous shades of the flowers gradually formed the insignia of the Collective as they swayed with the wind.
Elrhain was astounded to find such a picturesque place inside one of the most secretive locations of the nation.
“I’m so sorry, A—l-, Momma.” 
“I won’t fall in love with you, ever. I won’t hurt you. I’ll do nothing that will place you in harm's way. All I ask is for you to trust me.”
“I’m sorry.”
“Trust me to wish for nothing but your happiness, always.” Elrhain turned around, facing his best friend, who lay there broken in both body and soul. 
He had never felt so inadequate, so helpless in his life. But his smile was as radiant as the flowers outside. “I don’t want you to die. After all, life would be so boring without you.”
Agwyn wailed. Her broken cries hit his heart like a vicious curse, and he, too, could no longer stop the tears from shedding out.
*******
Elrhain opened his eyes. The headache had long passed. He glanced up at the sky to find an adorable snowy face peering down at him.
Agwyn had a pout, and she tried to make it meaner.
They just stared at each other for a few whiffs, letting the fragrance of fresh grass be their only distraction. Eluned and Bromwyn must have been studying them from somewhere around; their voices sounded muffled in Elrhain’s ears.
“Do you,” Agwyn finally asked, her eyes rife with a kind of tension Elrhain had never seen there, “find it that appalling? Dating me?”
Elrhain pursed his lips, not knowing how to respond.
Agwyn didn’t push for an answer, but he could see her holding in the tears. She just crouched there with her knees together, staring uneasily at his eyes.
“I don’t want to break my word.”
“That old promise? It’s stupid.” She sniffed.
“But Annie!” he pleaded.
“There is no one, not one bloody person in the whole damn universe who knows you better than me.”
“… Annie.” His gaze softened.
“Shirvan was a dick, a narcissist, and a dopamine addict. I didn’t know that. Naomi was a bloody spy spying on my mother, pretending to be my, who should be the actual spy’s girlfriend. I loved them but never bothered to actually look at them.” Agwyn’s small face scrunched up even further. She reddened in hatred, but Elrhain couldn’t tell if she was resentful at Shirvan and Naomi, or at herself.
“Ellie, I’ve been looking at you for the last sixty-two years, six long bloody decades of which in the last three, we have not spent even one minute out of each other’s company. I know you better than you know yourself. I know you better than your mothers know you!”
“…”
“You would first jump into an annihilator with a smile if it meant me not being hurt. Those two would throw the annihilator at me and walk away feeling nothing the first chance they get.”
“Annie, you’re rushing this. We can’t just go with the flow and hope for the best. I don’t want to risk our friendship for some feel-good chemical spikes in our brains. It will be too late for regrets by then.” He hid his eyes with his arms, no longer daring to look at those hopeful eyes. 
They stung.
“But I don’t want that! I’ve been waiting half my life, for God’s sake!” Agwyn screamed, which soon turned into full-blown bawls. Elrhain felt his eardrums almost rupturing as an indignant hand pulled him up from the ground by his tunic’s collar.
“What-!”
“I’m not that naïve little woman-child anymore! I don’t need you to jump into an annihilator. I… I just want you to forget about that stupid promise we made and carry out a new one right now!”
“Wait, the collar, I can’t breathe!” Elrhain tried to support his body by pushing his hands down on the ground. He had been lying face-up on the grass floor before, so the position now was really awkward. Agwyn was literally hanging him up by the neck.
“Trust me! Trust me, we can make this work. Trust me, I’ll love you till the end of the world, that no matter how much you hurt me or push me or make me cry, I’ll keep loving you till you beg me to love you more. You insensitive little jerk!”
“Agh, my throat, it feels weird.”
“No! Enough waiting! Waiting got me nothing but being old and childless! So many years of hoping, just hoping you would make a move, that you would respond to my advances, and did that do anything? You just fooled around with some Korean girl once, then broke up over bloody ramen!”
“That has nothing to do with this!” Elrhain whimpered out his protest, not finding the strength to even shout.
“It has everything to do with this. Do you know how long I practised making ramen after that? Why didn’t you ever look at me! Why didn’t you even tell me my ramen is the best?!” Agwyn was shrieking incoherently at this point. 
Her face was pink to the extreme as she pulled Elrhain up even higher. Her eyes lasered straight into his from above like the death star, and he could feel the blistering heat scorching his mind.
He was tearing up.
“Please.” She pleaded, “Give me a chance. Love me again.”
Elrhain stilled. He went quiet, ignoring his aching hands and neck, then finally let out a long sigh.
“I… would have lied to you.”
“A white lie.”
“If this doesn’t work… what if we end up hating each other?”
“It will. It won’t fail even if we die.”
The stars in Agwyn’s eyes twinkled like a supernova. Yet, unlike a moment ago, the pain he felt from looking at them changed into something more tame, more surreal.
Elrhain sat straight after pushing away Agwyn’s weak hands from his collars. He looked at her long and hard, as if trying to etch the moment into his soul.
She was puffing. Her mouth opened and closed as if she wanted to say something, but she had to hold herself back. Her robe was muddy and a mess. There were leaves, and twigs stuck on her hair, and her nose was bruised purple.
Elrhain watched as he breathed.
A hundred million thoughts raced through his mind every second. He speculated all the possibilities, all the ways it could go wrong. But in the end, he came up blank. 
He couldn’t foresee the future, neither success nor disappointment. Yet, the failures of the past haunted him like a ghost.
The breath in his chest slowly leaked out. The stale air left his lungs with a part of his demons; that moment was all it took for him to just… let go. Let go and live in the present.
“… fine.”
“W-What?” Agwyn perked, her pointy ears twitching. “What did you say?”
“… I said, let’s do it! I’ll make another damn promise with ugh- “
He couldn’t finish his sentence because his soon to be white imp of a fiancé crashed into him with all the force of a triceratops-in-love. She hugged him tight and started giggling like a crazy dolphin as they rolled down the 10-meter slope into the pond and plunged in with a splash.
“Gwyn!” “No, my son!”
Elrhain heard their parents’ cry. But at this moment, his mind demanded his attention elsewhere. 
Forget drowning in water. A pair of incredibly soft, moist, and mischievous lips forced themselves onto his own like a kiss-starved vampire. And ignoring all the wrongness of Agwyn’s sudden aggression as a three-cycle old baby, in one quiet corner of his mind, maybe, just maybe, he felt his heart flutter for the first time in half a century.


Chapter 10 - Gheists
“We're sowwy." 
"… sorry." 
Elrhain and Agwyn had their heads lowered as they whimpered out apologies.
Eluned had been scolding the two children until the wooden floor started cracking after their little stunt. In the end, it was Bromwyn who calmed her down with a hurried, 'We'll be late for the ritual.'
After a lengthy, drawn-out sigh, Eluned relented at last and brought out a fresh pair of robes and trousers from one bag. These new ones weren't obviously matching in style like the previous pair and had a different colour scheme altogether. 
Beige, Teal, and Grey.
Elrhain recognized them as two of the experiments from his mother's many trials and errors. Now he felt horrible for ruining her hard work.
She spent nights awake just to make the perfect ceremonial dresses for them, and they had selfishly ruined her heartfelt work in a soap opera drama sketch.
'I have to do something nice for her.' Elrhain decided.
Thirty minutes later, Agwyn and Elrhain left their courtyard with the adults for the first time in their second lives. The three long cycles of mind-numbing captivity were at last over.
In a clearing, some minutes of walking away, a few beasts of burden were grazing around eating grass with what looked to be baggage full of meat, wild fruits, and herbs tied to them. Agwyn being the hyper-excited chipmunk she was, excitedly ran towards the herd as though they owed her hugs and cuddles. 
And one of the more enormous beasts snapped up with a jolt. 
It snorted hot air out of its nostrils and raised its horns towards the stunned girl, its front feet stomping the ground in challenge as it raised a beastly roar.
Agwyn stepped back in fear and tripped on her legs.
"It's dangerous, my little gremlin." Bromwyn picked her up before her bottom hit the ground and placed her on his shoulder. The little lady, still unsure of her safety, kept a suspicious glare in the beast's direction.
Elrhain shook his head, watching the monkeyshines. Suddenly, his eyes met Agwyn’s, and his face froze like someone hit the pause button. He awkwardly tried to smile at her, but his facial muscles cramped. And Agwyn hid her own blushing face behind Bromwyn's braided hair. She then started peeking at him like a timid kitten.
'It's soooo awkward!' Elrhain cringed.
"Rhain dear, let’s follow the chief to his Pengyte." Eluned patted his head tenderly as he was anguishing within, not knowing how to address this headache.
After a while, the Dhionne boy managed to distract his mind with all the exotic fauna and flora around. 
He scanned the herd of beasts. 'Are these creatures called Pengytes?'
They had white striped green coats that matched well with the nearby forest. The square pupils seemed to peer into the void itself as they continuously chewed on grass and leaves.
Elrhain shuddered as he evaded direct eye contact with those creepy soul-less eyes. A little upward, he noticed their dual horns. They formed a peculiar shape unseen on Bovidae creatures on Earth. 
The horn roots left the skull at a 90 degree-ish angle. After ten centimetres out, they bent inward towards each other, the tips gradually nearing. The whole thing would create a pointy end of a triangle if they eventually converged. But they didn't.
'Fantasy indeed.' Elrhain couldn't fathom what kind of environment would produce an evolution like that. However, they were undoubtedly vertebrates.
"But how?" He murmured under his breath. The plants here looked Plantae-like, and that worm over there was obviously an invertebrate.
In the past three cycles, he recalled seeing avians, reptiles, insects, and arachnids too. Every few days, he'd also spotted cooked mushrooms, fish, and shrimp-like crustaceans during their family dinners.
'Statistically impossible, yet here we are.' Elrhain pondered the probabilities, shooing away an odd fly-like insect that buzzed around his ears. 
'If life evolved naturally on another world, the chances of it being this similar to Earth's should be near zero.'
And In mathematical terms, that was inconsequential. 
'Information pass between the two worlds, somehow.' He believed, 'Or it is natural. And all worlds will inevitably evolve beings that include Monera, Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia.'
'Earth might not be a special case since it only had these five. Over here, there might be more kingdoms in the biological classification.'
Elrhain didn't have a definitive answer to all these mysteries yet, but he had a theory. 
"Magic," he sighed—the only thing noticeably different between Earth and Uorys Diosca on the most fundamental level. 
Even if there was magic on Earth, the quantity was either so little that it had no detectable effect in the grand scheme of things. Or, they were seamlessly interwoven with the laws of nature in a way that thirty-first-century science had no means of identifying.
"Aren't the Kaloxen adorable, Rhain?" Eluned said as she pat his head. She must have noticed Elrhain looking at those beasts of burden so intently.
"Mother, these are not Pengytes?" Elrhain indeed found them adorable. But at a much higher and scientific level than Eluned could ever fathom. He still beamed her an adorably scientist-y smile.
"Oh no, Pengytes are great predatory Gheistrums born for carnage." His mother crossed her arms and placed a finger on her chin. 
"These Kaloxen are merely tamed Ahnmigheists, only good for ploughing the berry-farms and carrying items of baggage. I suppose their excreta is also useful for farmhand servants. Other than being slightly mean-tempered, they do no harm."
Eluned led her son by the hand towards the back of the herd as she marked out various tidbits on the surrounding beasts.
"That, over there," She pointed her index finger at a prone red shape in the distance, "Is a Red Pengyte. A Gheistrum with Oceanic might. Our clan chief's personal mount and companion beast. I heard from your father many tales and even legends of its feats. He saw it tearing hordes of Gheistrum more powerful than Kaloxen in fewer than a hundred breaths many times throughout the cycles."
"Um, mother, are Anmigheists weaker than Gheistrums?" Elrhain asked, meticulously examining the giant red menace.
It was… overwhelming.
It had a form comparable to a wolf's. Yet the muscles all over were destructively explosive, even on the four limbs. Its body wasn't hulking with muscles, though. The fat gave it a stocky build, like the polar bears back on Earth. 
The Pengyte, however, was bigger on all accounts. It was at least three meters high at the shoulders, even when it was lazing on the ground. Its length from snout to tail measured around ten or twelve. 
It had obsidian claws the size of swords, and they glinted with similar sharpness. At first, he thought the whole beast was covered in scales because of how it reflected the sunlight.
But closer now, he saw it was all fur. Metallic and flowy. The eyes were ruby red in a black sclera. Two sharp coppery fangs jutted down from its upper jaw, akin to musk deers.
The beast let out a massive yawn as Bromwyn once again had to pick up Agwyn as she bolted towards it.
"Aww, my son is so wise, thinking such tough questions," Eluned lauded with a smile in her eyes. 
"It's Ahn-mi-gheist, and they can be just as powerful. Since they too were once Gheistrums tens of generations ago. Gheistrums are simply the direct lineage of the Manna-riogh's creations, which makes them especially dangerous."
"Manna… riogh?" Elrhain asked, pondering over what he had just learned. But his mother shushed him as they approached the giant beast.
This close, and Elrhain saw he could barely reach its folded legs. 
But something was wrong. Rather than a polar bear in demeanour, this looked more like a…
"Aha! You are already here, lady Siaglas. Come now, Gwyn, go play with little Rhain while the watches ready the herd. I promise I will let you ride Alleigh soon. So don't climb him on your own under any circumstances. As gallant as he is, he is a sensitive soul, too shy with strangers." Bromwyn reminded her as he let Agwyn down from his shoulder into Eluned's arms. 
Agwyn kept glancing at the silky fur in yearning.
The large man then called out to some of the Watches who were minding the preparations as he went back towards the Kaloxen herd. The Watches, hearing his orders, guided the beasts into a rough shape of a convoy, going through the baggage tied to them one last time by the looks of it.
Agwyn, now being carried by Eluned with her chin resting on his mother's shoulder, peered down to meet Elrhain's gaze. They both didn't know what to say to each other.
Elrhain finally could not stand the awkward silence. He gathered up his inner man and shouted,
"Um, hi?"
"H-Hello!"
"Arf!"
"Oh my!"
… when the giant Pengyte beside them barked out a silly woof, completely misreading the atmosphere.
Eluned backed away a few steps while keeping her composer steady. The brave woman shielded the child in her arms away from the stinky breath, while her glare towards the Pengyte turned even more rotten.
Elrhain and Agwyn, on the other hand, snapped towards Alleigh like zombies.
The Pengyte, who had just done what on Earth would be called an oopsie, seemed to cower under their intense gazes, burying his red muzzle under his paws.
They both turned their eyes back towards each other in bewilderment. After a few more awkward seconds of silence, the two broke into giggling laughter.
Eluned didn't know what was going on with the hysteric babies, but joined in nonetheless. The merry mood seemed to give the Pengyte the courage he needed as well. Alleigh warily looked towards them repeatedly; then, judging it safe, flicked its tongue out, followed by another "Arf~."
Elrhain and Agwyn laughed even louder, and all the anxiety of the past hour simply evaporated.


Chapter 11 - What came first?

“Were you avoiding me?” Elrhain asked. 
He was currently sitting on top of Alleigh’s fluffy back with Agwyn. Eluned sat behind them so that the children didn’t fall and injure themselves. 
Bromwyn, the Pengyte’s master, scouted the forest trail ahead with his team of hunters for any rogue dangers on the way. 
All manners of howls and screeches sounded from the deep jungle around them, as the adults carried back pile after pile of animal carcasses, or Ahnmigheists as they called them here. It took only minutes to bleed, butcher, and bind the meat and bones into leafy bags.
Which they then secured to the Kaloxen while expert shovellers simply buried the waste parts in the ground. Strangely enough, they were throwing away a large portion of the meat too alongside the waste, which confused Elrhain.
But what interested him more were the varied uses of magic spells from the entire Ahnmigheist processing steps.
‘I need to record all the diverse uses of magic.’ Elrhain added to his to-do list.
With the cacophony of nature and Eluned’s melodic humming as a backdrop, the two children whispered to each other in their faux-telepathy about this and that. They had practised over the years to make their whole secret conversation gig subtler. Now they could talk nonsense outwards in Uorian, while the actual communication superimposition itself in Earth Common.
“No! It was just so bloody embarrassing.” Agwyn frantically waved her hands at Elrhain’s question. “Hells below, we were saying such c-cheesy lines. Imagine if our parents could actually understand us.”
Elrhain flinched, his face too blushing wildly. He definitely shared her sentiment. No matter how passionate and pink the moment was, suddenly shouting high school level love comedy quotes was always a big no-no.
‘Middle school,’ he corrected himself, squirming in mental agony. 
“Don’t bring it up, ever, I beg you. I feel like dying every time I remember that.” Elrhain pleaded, deciding to change the topic. “B-By the way, did you see the suns?”
“Deal.”, Agwyn nodded furiously, playing along with Elrhain’s attempt. “And suns? There’s only one though.”
“Nope. If you look closer, you will see another two concentrated specks of light on the bottom-right edge of its corona. And a big one on the upper-left. They are so close together that they look like one big, if unevenly spherical, sun to the untrained eyes. I think Uorys Diosca is like the 30-Ari-A quadruple star system.”
“Huh? How did you see all that without shades or a telescope? And, I heard mommy call it the respected Sohwl, and how it rains down fire whenever the Dhionne and the Faediaga contempt the disc.” Agwyn muttered, glancing up. She wanted to get a better look at the four suns just to be sure.
But only a portion of the sky peaked out through the thick forest canopy. 
So the Sohwl, which was now westward from its midday position, couldn’t be seen clearly. 
“Come to think of it, the only time we could see the suns was during noontime when we were playing in the courtyard garden.” 
“Yeah, the clouds always covered it otherwise,” Elrhain shrugged. “Yet no strange swirl of clouds to be seen now. Just another enigma of magic we need to figure out.”
They went on chattering about odd things they noticed along the way. Their convoy of beasts moved through the lush mountain trail, passing one peak after another. Their short journey also took them by myriads of mystical lakes, caves full of growling beasts, and actual floating islands, making the two positively wow out loud till their jaws went sore.
Right now, they were on the fringe of a mountain full of tall bamboo-like trees, going downwards. 
They could see a misty valley in the distance, with the splashing sound of waterfalls getting louder by the minute. Many other mountains surrounded the same valley, creating a foggy, dreamlike scenery, like the adobe of hermits in tales of eastern mythology.
The blushing awkwardness from before was nowhere to be seen. Or it was still there, and they both tactfully ignored it, much to Elrhain’s relief. The journey itself had been quite pleasant, which helped him no small amount in calming down.
The trail under Alleigh’s feet was well paved with rubble and stone with very few bumps. Occasionally, they would come by groups of large huts made of mud and stone, with straw and branch roofing. 
Dhionne people, each with one or two strange physical features, were scurrying about their everyday tasks. Each time, a team of natives would join the convoy, decked out in ceremonial clothing such as gaudy gheist-pelt robes or kilts, fang and bone ornaments, and jewellery made of beautiful rocks. Their heads donned feather headdresses and bone crowns, with painted totems on their faces and bodies.
Most of them had skin colour the shades of honey brown or olive green, generally of the milder tones. Some had tails, with others sprouting antlers and horns.
Elrhain even spotted one extremely old Dhionne man who had clawed fingers on all of his scaled reptilian limbs. He reverently came to greet Bromwyn with a band of Dhionne following behind.
After a conversation with exaggerated body language, they too joined the convoy, bringing in their own set of beasts of burden.
“Dhionne Villages?” Elrhain asked.
“Don’t you think it’s too tiny to be a village? There are only 30 or so people in so few houses, most of which are adjoint. Maybe a family home? Those Dhionne all have identical scales as that grandpa.” Agwyn observed.
Elrhain supposed it was possible. At first, he thought their courtyard was utterly remote. Were they banished or clan outcasts? That didn’t sound plausible either, with how reverential the servants were towards their family—especially Cyra, Bromwyn and Thundham.
Now he concluded that the distance between one family’s house to another’s was simply absurdly far.
“Annie, how do you reckon they keep security? I hear a lot of monsters, em, gheist roars in this area.”
Agwyn thought for a while, then pointed at the bone and stone weapons being carried by the Dhionne people. Some even had metal swords of a bronze-ish glimmer. 
They knew metal was rare in this world. It was exclusively employed for weapons, shields, and armours. Never for tools.
“See how even the children are strutting around with spikes? They probably welcome animal trespassers since it means free dinner. For christ’s sake, look at that one with the spear! She looks even younger than me!” Agwyn said, waving at a particularly curious little girl who was staring at Alleigh with drool dripping from her mouth. 
The girl jolted awake like a bunny as if feeling Agwyn’s immoral gaze and ran away to hide behind the claw handed grandpa. 
“Hng, so cute.”
“Now that I think about it, those Gheists your father and his men caught don’t look particularly monster-ish either. So each family handles their own safety in this relatively safer area?”
“I assume so, yes! Besides, I think Alleigh might also have a part in it.” Agwyn gently leaned forward and patted the patch of discoloured fur on the Pengyte’s forehead. 
The magical husky—and Elrhain would fight with anyone who said otherwise—jerked his neck around and stuck his tongue out. A few good-natured giggles from Agwyn made him woof in glee.
“They all have several tamed Gheiststrums or… or stronger Ahnmigheists in each family. Do you see how packed that eight-legged Iguana is? And look at that rhino! Oh god, it has beautiful grass patches growing on its hide and blossoms on the horns.” 
Agwyn started at the latter in wonder, “How magical. Do you think it’s a fairy?”
“Ew, no way.” Elrhain peered away from the monstrosity. “Any chance they pee around the houses to mark their territory to keep interlopers out? Like wild tigers back on Earth?”
Agwyn gagged at the image and thwacked Elrhain’s shoulders. “Stop being weird! Those are tamed beasts, pets! They should have designated spots for excreta!”
“I disagree; a litter box sounds like a concept too advanced for these tribal folks.” He observed all the gheists in convoy, including Alleigh. “The mounts don’t have saddles or harnesses. On that note, I have seen no fabric clothing or threads as of yet.”
He then pointed at one of the Kaloxen, “No wheelbarrows, wagons, or carts either. They paved this road so well with stone. Why simply tie the bundle to a beast and not some sort of wheeled carrier? This all looks inefficient.”
“Err, let me consider.” Agwyn closed her eyes to concentrate, rubbing the sides of her skull with her fingers, “They have stone-paved roads, but it could be for the mounts, right? Some of these beasts don’t look like they were built for trekking the unstable mountain hills. However, our Earthling ancestors invented wheels in… I don’t know. But it should be before paved roads, right?”
“Yes. It was in 5500 BCE on Earth, 1500 years before the first paved road was made in Mesopotamia. And wheels were first used in pottery, I think. Speaking of sticky mud,” Elrhain rubbed his nose, “Our courtyard was built with stone, timber, and some sort of grey adhesive lime, right?”
“Oh, cement then? When was that invented?”
“Probably not the modern kind, which was invented around the 1800s. But yes, a cementitious composite. Like the roman limestone and volcanic ash version, used in the early 300 BCE. There are some serious technological discrepancies with this world.”
“… Or maybe they are in use, just not here in the valleys and mountains? Don’t you think you’re overthinking this?”
Elrhain laughed and brushed Agwyn’s squishy cheek. Physical contact had turned into a casual habit for them with thirty Earth years of constant crib-company. “I suppose so. But those are just some of the weirdness I noticed.”
“Such as?” Agwyn blinked. She had tossed a chunk of dried meat at Alleigh just now, and the Pengyte was contentedly chewing on the meal.
“I’ve never seen any papyrus, vellum, let alone paper, being used in the clan. Only very roughly processed parchment. All the language ‘books’ I found were actually animal-skin scrolls. Yet they have intricate bone-made fountain pens with removable cartilage nibs and ink cartridges that use minerals from rocks, ash, and actual blood for ink!” Elrhain exclaimed.
Elrhain then explained why those kinds of pens should not even exist in this time period.
On Earth, the first ink pen was invented in the 1820s. Before that were the dip pens, quill pens, and even earlier were reed pens. In fact, reed pens were developed around the same time as the papyrus. Though at first, they used it as a cuneiform stylus for clay writing. 
Later, they invented ink from grinding minerals and noticed reed pens could be used to write on papyrus, much more logistically viable than large clay slabs, which had to be dried afterwards. They were even more precise than human fingers.”
Agwyn slowly bobbed her head, “Come to think of it. None of the dwellings here uses fired bricks either. Not even our fancy courtyard. Yet they can smelt metal swords.”
“That! I asked that to grandfather when I first noticed all of this. He didn’t even know what a brick was.” Elrhain excitedly nodded. He rather enjoyed discussions like these. 
“So I’ve been using the lucid dreams to jog my memory. To get hold of the specifics and nitty-gritty details, if by chance I had ever read a book, article, or watched a video on any of these topics. Luckily, I watched a few good documentaries on the history of pen and paper.”
“Is that why you were so tired lately, even though you sleep more than me?” 
Elrhain nodded, averting his eyes from her narrowing gaze.
“Ellie… Didn’t you say you’ll do it in moderation? You’ll turn into one of those virtual reality junkies at this rate.” Agwyn grabbed his head and turned it her way. “Look at me!”
“But I was!” Elrhain defended himself. “Can I get back on topic, please? I was just getting to the good part.”
“… we are not finished, you know? But sure.” Agwyn snorted.
“Excellent!” Elrhain cheered, intentionally ignoring her stink eyes before going back to his lecture, “We can either attribute all this to magic and sorcery. Perhaps the denizens of this world simply chose another path of development. 
Perhaps they spent all their intelligence pursuing magical or martial strength and neglected all other sciences. But the discrepancy is still too glaring. There must be something we are missing. You get me?”
“Duh,” Agwyn chided, “We are barely a meter tall, and this is our first trip outside. You need to get some first-hand knowledge to come to a real conclusion.”
“Yeah, haha.” Elrhain scratched his head. 
“You’re right. But I have a suspicion that my guess is not too far from the truth. No matter the civilisation, there is always a specific flow in inventions, from simple to complex, like papyrus necessitating reed pens as an ink-scribe tool. Yes, this flow gets broken a lot as the application of an invention is limited only by our imagination. But never to this large of a margin. Just consider the case with the bone fountain pens I mentioned earlier. 
Let’s look at it from a historical perspective. Experts have hypothesised that while some ancient human tribes in the Palaeolithic age used dried animal skin for painting murals, similar to cave art, it was exceedingly rare. Ancient parchment scrolls, like our clan’s, were used for writing for the first time in the same period as papyrus.”
Elrhain stopped to catch his breath and organise his thoughts. Agwyn attentively listened with her cheeks resting on her palms. 
“But when papyrus got widespread with exports from Egypt, parchment virtually vanished because of its complicated manufacturing process. It was only popularised again thousands of years later when papyrus production dwindled as the reeds used to make them were over-harvested.
After that came vellum, then books. The Chinese invented paper independently during the 2nd century BCE. Yet, it only replaced vellum entirely throughout the known world during the 11th century CE. It was 500 years after the paper was first exported out of China in the 600s.”
“You said the fountain pens even had internal ink reservoirs?” Agwyn picked up the key point.
“Yes.” Elrhain nodded. 
“Even at the earliest estimated period when vellum was first widely used, and not the badly processed animal-skin parchments like the clan’s, they were using quills at best. Not even a dip pen is possible, which was only used after pigment-based ink was invented, like India ink.
Fountain pens came even later, and they could never use pigment-based ink like the clan’s gheist blood properly since it would clog the pen in no time: only water and dye-based. Yet here…” Elrhain looked towards Agwyn for her opinion.
“Indeed, that is a large skip in generations,” She agreed.
“What’s weirder is how they make the pens and why they don’t clog or corrode. Or even though they don’t process the parchments to accept ink better, they still work well.” Elrhain shook his head in defeat. 
“Mommy told me there are storytellers in the clan township in the valley, and a shaman she called the ‘Keeper of the Archives.’” Agwyn said. “Maybe you can get more clues there?”
“Well, it’s just a peeve of mine.” Elrhain nodded before smiling mischievously at Agwyn. “If nothing, now we can become the mysterious and knowledgeable Wisemen of this era, who can bring out witch-craft far stranger than magic from their tiny little noggins. Such as chemical fertiliser! Or ice cream!”
“Or muskets and gunpowder! Maybe even modern eco-friendly biological weaponry!” Agwyn beamed.
“… let’s limit ourselves to ice cream for now.” Elrhain shivered, trying to push the evil thoughts away from Agwyn’s head by repeatedly whacking it.
Agwyn awkwardly laughed after shoving away his hand, “I was just kidding. A joke, hey! Why are you looking at my hands? I promise I didn’t have my fingers crossed!”




Chapter 12 - Water flows up, Annie goes down!

“Magnificent, isn’t it?” Eluned patted Agwyn’s and Elrhain’s heads as the two children gaped in absolute awe at the view before them. She had taken the kids up a nearby hill for a better look at the clan’s pride. 
This would delay them a bit, but Bromwyn insisted on it.
The convoy had left the deep mountainous forest about an hour ago and stopped by the Aenraad river flowing through this misty valley. They handed the Kaloxen and other beasts of burden over to the beast keepers waiting for them at the stables. The convoy members then carried the baggage the rest of the way themselves.
About a kilometre north of their position was a quaint Dhionne village, or township as Eluned called it. It encompassed the valley’s mountain slopes around the river mouth, with stone structures popping out of the green forest canopy like some elven settlement. 
Houses, huts, spires, and more, mostly made of white marble stone, wood, and clay brimming with an archaic charm.
Where the river ended, a series of waterfalls fell down tens of meters, hitting one inclined ridge after another. And all the water eventually settled into a vast turquoise lake, expanding far out of the two children’s vision. 
It was there that stood another white structure, a thousand times larger than even the largest of stone houses on the valley slopes.
A small mountain on its own, the temple-like-edifice looked far more intricate in design than everything else in the surrounding. Yet, it was scarred with the ruination of both time and war. 
Even the smaller huts and buildings that dotted ridges, from the river mouth down to the lake waters, felt like part of a grand archaeological ruin because of that one looming form. 
It was evident to Elrhain that all the Dhionne architecture the two had seen until now were designed after it. Even their own courtyard, which was a five-hour Pengyte-ride away, had elements resembling this temple.
“Is that maglev?” Elrhain asked, expecting no reply but wishing for an answer. He pointed at the topmost part of the ruined temple. A giant, elongated piece of rock sculpted into a spire floated there in serene peace. It had cracked runic engravings and occasional pulses of light running through the outer walls, the mystery of its existence almost palpable in the air.
“Ewuned, why’s that waterfall fwoating upward?” He heard Agwyn chirp. She was crouching beside him with one palm shielding her eyes from the sunlight. 
The sky was rolling with white and grey clouds, making the surroundings feel like a dark night land. Yet the slight shine that peaked through the gaps of the heavens painted the entire township in a luminous glow, with the ruined temple as a backdrop.
Agwyn’s scrunched up her tiny nose. She stared at the other bizarre sight with her brain obviously short-circuiting.
Half of the ruined temple’s structure extended over the edge of the land, into the vast body of water, on top and below the lake too. 
The ancient mossy walls were in even worse shape. Waterfalls of all sizes were gushing out of the many cracks, windows, doorways, and other holes created over uncountable cycles. 
It created an enchanting sight, like the fabled Niagara Falls of old.
Except for one striking anomaly. The largest and highest of the waterfalls had water flowing upwards from the lake into a giant open entrance located about fifty meters high from the lake surface, being perhaps a hundred metres in width across.
Everything about it and the floating spire was unforgivingly unscientific, extraordinary, and far exceeded the bits and pieces of magic he had witnessed till now.
He felt something strange in his heart. Until now, Elrhain was happy just speculating on the nature of this world and its magic from inside that enclosed room no matter how boring it might have sometimes felt. Because he had not seen the alternative. Yet now he realized there were so many wonders to see and explore. How many ruins like this hid in Uorys Diosca? What about the whole Fanas Dioscas and the other discs? The history and the mystery. 
He didn’t like danger or uncertainty. But the unknown called him like a moth to a flame, so damn much. 
Elrhain was absolutely sure that Agwyn felt the same, if not stronger, about venturing out. She had always been more adventurous than him.
“I don’t know. Maybe you can ask the Grand Elder when we meet him, Gwyn. But that’s enough gawking, for now, let’s go back to your father.” Eluned finally answered after pondering on the little girl’s question for quite a while. But then she announced it was time to leave, very much to their discontent. 
“But mother, this is a biblical moment for us!” Elrhain protested. This was an experience entirely new for him, even considering all the virtual tech back on Earth. He wanted to savour the moment, to relish in it, and engrave it into his soul, and finally mould it into who he was.
“No buts, my love. No biblicals either; what does that mean, by the way?” Eluned shook her head before continuing, “We can come another day if you want. So let’s not make the chieftain wait any longer. It’s a rude thing to do, you know.” 
Sometimes Elrhain lamented the fact that Eluned had none of his drive for the unknown. 
As endearing as the woman was to him, she was still the loving, if not the strict and overprotecting mother of his body.
“Ewuned, can we stay for 5 more minutes? Pretty pwease?” He beamed when Agwyn came to his help. 
His smile cracked when he saw Eluned just pick the protesting little girl up and lead him down the hill with her other hand.
At the hill’s foot stood a stone building with a large wooden enclosure behind it. The beasts of burden of their convoy lazed around in ones and twos, drinking water from the creeks or snacking on the fresh, dewy grass. Young Dhionne scuttled between them to check over each beast for anomalies.
Bromwyn was talking to a middle-aged antlered Dhionne at the enclosure gates. The claw-handed grandpa was also there, along with a few other Dhionne. Some of whom Elrhain recognized as prominent figures from all the Dhionne settlements they had passed through.
Alleigh, the Red Pengyte, was eating a tub full of meat on one side. His ears perked up as he noticed the three approaching, his tail wagging like a motorboat rudder.
Bromwyn waved at them when they got into earshot. He hid an aggravated expression right before switching to his usual jolly one, which both Elrhain and Agwyn noted.
“How was the sight, my valiant little warriors? I remembered the first time I laid my eyes on the Loch Sagathan Temple. I have not been the same man ever since.”
“I know, right? Can you tell mother to let us go back again? I want to change into another man like you did, big guy.” Elrhain patted the older man’s kilt with an impressed expression. He would even sucker up to this barbarian if it meant he could enjoy that view again.
Bromwyn laughed and patter his head, “What mystique does it still have left if you stare at it in wonder forever. That is not enlightenment but investigation. It only has true meaning in that very first moment, and everything else is just an extra.”
“That’s just sophistry!” 
“Now, who has been teaching you such hard words? Did you learn them from me, perhaps?” Bromwyn looked proud.
“That’s not the point. Can’t you see Annie is crying over there? How can you guys be so cruel?” Agwyn, catching her cue, released the floodgates of her puppy dog eyes.
Bromwyn guffawed, “If only I had such a wonderful relationship with Cyra early in our marriage. We could only communicate heart to heart after thirty cycles of companionship.”
Elrhain felt like throwing up blood.
“Ahem!”
A light but audible cough interrupted his back and forth with Bromwyn. He looked in the direction of the sound and saw it was the antlered dhionne Bromwyn had been talking to until they came. The old man had a lightly curled palm in front of his mouth as he observed them with the same weird eyes as a Kaloxen’s.
“Elder Sonora, please accept my deepest apologies for my insolence,” Bromwyn said, but with a jovial laugh. Yet the twitch in that voice was not hidden from the boy. Elrhain looked up at the larger man in confusion. 
‘Did he always talk like this?’
He then saw Elder Sonora look towards him from the corner of his eyes. There was something in that expression that he didn’t quite like. 
Elrhain subconsciously shifted towards his mother and grabbed her hand.
“No apologies needed, my lord.” Elder Sonora shifted his gaze from Elrhain to Eluned and finally to Agwyn, who was resting in her arms. He looked shocked for a split second, then a glint appeared deep in his eyes that made Elrhain’s skin crawl.
But an eye-blink later, Elder Sonora was back to normal. He questioned with a raised eyebrow and a scowl on his face, “Could they perhaps be the…?”
Elrhain plugged his ears at the booming laughter that followed, “Certainly indeed. But I will leave the formal introduction of my valiant daughter and son-in-law at the ceremony on this holy night. They are still quite young and need proper rest before the hectic rituals begin.”
He then extended an arm towards Eluned with an open palm, “This beautiful young woman here would be Lady Eluned Earthloch Siaglas, the wife of Reanakt Siaglas and our proud in-laws. She and her Siaglas homestead were ones who have been caring for our daughter in me and my wife’s absence.”
Eluned hastily bowed in the noble custom after putting Agwyn down. 
She looked unfamiliar with the process and nervous at being scrutinized by so many elderly figures, most of whom were noble homestead owners themselves, if not even having manors and minor dominions.
There were also the free tribesmen in the service of the Earthloch Siorrakty with their sigils removed. Great warriors of vast magical might, with their freedom earned by contributions to the clan by themselves or by the grace of their ancestors.
Either way, they could not be compared with the servants who made up the vast majority of the population. Many of them were even in charge of managing said Earthloch servants.
A few cycles ago, Eluned could only look at their free and unbound lifestyle from afar, not even knowing how to feel jealous. Yet now, she was their equal in name and superior in standing.
“That, I can see.” Elder Sonora spoke with a leisurely tone. His eyes seem to scrutinize Eluned’s attire, her ornaments, and most importantly, her worth as a noble. Elrhain did not like that.
“You were a herb tendering servant working at Clan Elder Landohr’s medicinal garden if the words are to be believed.”
“Y-Yes, Elder Sonora. Elder Landohr had taken great care of me during the time, for which I am eternally grateful.” Eluned raised her head in answer. A naïve smile on her face.
“That she has. Very well then, Caretaker Eluned. I will leave our dialogue at that then. Remember to take good care of all the princess’s needs, as you always have for our noble-blood clan.” Elder Sonora finally showed a slight change in expression from his seemingly eternal frown. A raised corner of his lips followed by a nasal laugh.
Elrhain didn’t like that either, and he could sense Agwyn fuming too.
Elder Sonora, not noticing the discontent he sowed, turned towards Bromwyn and bowed elegantly. His movements natural, none of the clunkiness like Eluned had shown. “It appears that this is not a good time for our discussion, my lord. I will have to trouble you after the week is over.”
After a polite hand wave from Bromwyn in return, he left in the direction of the township with his cohort. But not before giving Elrhain, Eluned, and Agwyn one final glance over. His gaze lingered on Agwyn for far longer than Elrhain was comfortable with.
The little boy scrunched up his face while staring at the leaving figures. Many homestead headsmen had left with the group along with the freemen warriors, with only the grandpa with clawed fingers and two other middle-aged figures staying behind.
They shared a few polite words with Bromwyn and Eluned, much to the chieftain’s delight, and finally wished well for Agwyn and Elrhain.
“My little one has been chattering non-stop to meet you two, young master Siaglas and princess of Earthloch. Do humour her when the time comes a few cycles later, only if you remember this old face by then, of course. Hahaha.” With a toothy grin, the claw-handed grandpa and the other two also left towards the township.
“Well, I am glad that was over with. Shall we make haste too—Is something bothering you, my fair daughter?” Bromwyn was just about to call back Alleigh—who had been quite active this whole time trying to attract their attention—when he noticed a grumpy Agwyn purple in the face.
“… I don’t wike them.” She replied. “They mean. I don’t want to be here anymore.”
Bromwyn gagged at that. He tried to coo her gently, “Now now, princess, it’s not nice to say that about people you have just met. I’m sure you’ll change your mind when we get to the Elder’s rest.”
“You are taking their side! Daddee doesn’t wuv me anymore!” Agwyn harrumphed in the opposite direction while puffing her cheeks and crossing her arms. Bromwyn tried to talk to her with a panicked expression immediately after. Still, she just kept facing away and finally buried her face in Eluned’s bosom, completely ignoring the flustered giant.
Eluned just kept looking at the two awkwardly, not knowing what to do.
Elrhain, seeing it going nowhere, tugged at Bromwyn’s kilt, “Will grandpa Thundham be mad at us if we are late, big guy?”
Bromwyn looked down at him, then let out an exhausted sigh. He said a few more pampering words to Agwyn to no avail, then helped the three get up on the magical husky.
He would walk back with the rest of his huntsmen and watches. As the clan chieftain, he was far busier than even the two children, who were tonight’s event’s main focus.
Elrhain scrutinized Agwyn’s tiny face, now on sitting top of Alleigh again. Eluned was trying to soothe the moody little girl, but that made her pout harder.
“Annie, you look like you ate a whole lemon raw.” Elrhain laughed, poking her chubby cheeks.
When he saw her not responding, he just kept on poking.
“Just keep poking! Just keep poking!”
“… Stop that!” Agwyn finally broke her demeanour with a  giggle as she swatted away the offending finger.
A few seconds of playful scuffle later, she asked, “Aren’t you mad at those stuck-up pricks? They made fun of Eluned like they had boiled eggs up their butt.”
“Hey, it’s not their fault they are uncultured.”
“Ellie!”
“Okay, fine, I am mad. But what’s the use of pouting. Will they learn better manners if we do?” Elrhain shrugged. “And stop being so hard on the big guy; he looked like an abandoned kitten.” 
“But… it feels so wrong.” Agwyn gritted her teeth. “I just want to punch their faces in, ah!”
“Then remember their faces and wait for a chance. There is an old saying, kindness tenfold, and enmity hundredfold. We can’t do anything now.” Elrhain gave her a tight hug from behind and whispered tenderly into her cute pointy ears,
“But when we make magical tuxedos, soft silk shawls, and shiny leather cardigans for mother while they still walk around in those drab beast hide pelts, we’ll see who gets the last civilized laugh.”
Agwyn paused and turned towards him in wonder. The smile she showed him was so radiant it blinded the suns.






Chapter 13 - Dungeon Spelunking
“Welcome to Lochuir, my loves!” Eluned exclaimed with an oriole laugh as she led the two kids into the mystical township.
“Aren’t we going to the Elder’s Rest like the big guy said?” Elrhain asked absent-mindedly, his slit-blue eyes darting in every direction like magnets. Agwyn also kept tugging his sleeves to point out each new absurdity she saw while gasping Ooohs and Aaahs.
“Mother can’t take you there because of the rite. Someone will come and escort you.” Eluned said, and Elrhain could pick up some concern in her voice.
But he ignored it because there were more urgent things to ponder about.
Like, how were these town folks fastening a lump of dirt, gravel, and vines into open-walled pavilions with a few gestures of their hands?
Or why were those groups of Dhionne with gills and blue skin worshipping those horrendous sculptures made of fishbones lining up along the wharf?
Not to mention, what were these tiny and adorable little critters that flocked around the area where the fish were being processed? They fought each other to eat the black gunk like wastes left to the side, ignoring the scales and discarded meat. After which, they swelled up like cute fluffy balloons and popped! Scattering chunks of solid, shiny materials all over the place.
Elrhain felt he had a heart attack, and Agwyn started crying before they noticed something even more bizarre.
The original adorable critter was left behind in its original spot, confused and mewling, looking left and right as if to take in the situation, then went back to repeat the process pushing through its brethren for more black gunk.
Agwyn squealed and ran off like a puppy to hug one of them. But a band of muscular fishers with their tops exposed—servants by their sigils, blocked her path with grim determination and refused to budge.
Agwyn tried to tackle through while screeching war cries, but Eluned picked her up in a panic before hastily leaving that area.
Elrhain could sense the suspicious glares those men sent even as they walked away. It physically stung.
And so their exciting tour continued, with shrieks, yells, and laughter. There was the hustle and bustle here in Lochuir, but nothing like the cities on Earth.
It felt exhilarating; it felt invigorating.
Things were just about to get more fun for the two when another group of people blocked their path. This time, Elrhain recognized them.
They were a few servants headed by Elder Croneira, the nice if grumpy old lady that visited them often to check up on their health.
“Lady Siaglas, good that you could make it on time.” She said. The voice was hoarse, and there were dark bags under her eyes.
Eluned shifted in her place with a stiff smile.
“Don’t make this difficult, young lady.” Elder Croneira sighed, then spoke like some mafioso, “hand them over.”
“Um.” Eluned was about to argue, but the Elder held one of her palms up.
“Look, I know you are worried. But I thought we went over this a few days ago. The father leads the boy, and the mother leads the girl. You, weave the blood-tethered robes.” The Elder said with no small amount of frustration, “And please, for the love of our great lakes and the spirits, I haven’t slept in seven days! I would really rather have this up and over with.”
The young mother agonized for a few more breaths, and Elrhain felt her literally pry her hand away from his own.
“Your father and the chieftainess will be there.” Eluned said, kneeling to their eye level and hugging them tightly, “Listen to the Elder on the way down. And little Gwyn, don’t rush off, promise?”
“Pwomise!” The little girl replied while Elrhain wondered if they were actually being taken to some dangerous place where Agwyn’s shenanigans could brew actual harm.
---
They were not, at least in his opinion.
Yet, he could understand why his mother was so worried. Because for other typical toddlers their age, this underground world was most definitely dangerous.
The humidity, the deepwater pools, sharp rocks and slippery algae, the hundreds of meter drops, and so many interesting glowing things a hyper curious baby could run after to their doom if left unsupervised for even a second.
Right now, Elrhain and Agwyn were standing before two cryptic doors deep under the Loch Sagathan Temples. It took an hour and a half of careful Dungeon spelunking with the adults carrying them protectively to reach here.
Elder Croneira brought the two wide-eyed kids deep down the winding stairs carved into the walls, passed by soaking hallways covered in bio-luminescent moss and algae, which were also engraved with pictures telling tales of yore.
They walked on bridges with streams of all shapes below, the rumbling echo of water beating their ears like a ritual drum, and the damp air around them felt like salty sea wind on their skin.
They trod through caverns, with mazes of aqueducts crisscrossing amid the air, carrying untold volumes of shining blue water. The water would often splash down, and before Elrhain could take a closer look, the glow would vanish as if it wasn’t magical.
Littered around them were debris and pillars jutting out of the ground in odd angles. They were dressed in algae and moss, both of which illuminated the artworks inscribed.
Agwyn had an even harder time staying put than Elrhain.
For example, when they crossed a pristine temple complex submerged under crystal clear water, she had to bite her own hand to hold in the urge to dive in and explore for lost Atlantis treasures.
And at the end of their journey, behind the many waterfalls tumbling down from the cracks and broken aqueducts above, they stepped into one such Temple.
This one wasn’t submerged, but that was only true for the part Elrhain could see.
He turned towards Agwyn. The little girl was standing a few paces to the right, fidgeting about in either nervousness or impatience. Her eyes were glued to a small, jagged crystal on the door right in front of her, hesitating if she should touch it or not.
To Elrhain, the murky blue sheen made her small Elven features look even more like a dream.
Yet when he saw her eyes, that dream of fantasy broke. There was no anxiety there, just an insatiable thirst for adventure.
Elrhain looked behind him to a sleepy Elder Croneira and one other servant standing between them and the deep plunge below.
The passageway floor ended with a row of pillars in that direction, but there were no walls. They could see the dimly illuminated cavern hundreds of meters away from where they stood. As if they were on top of a mountain peak.
Elrhain had peaked down a few minutes earlier out of curiosity and immediately scuttled back. Elder Croneira had to pry Agwyn’s grip from the ledge of the corridor when she did the same.
Under this open-air corridor was a colossal statue of a dhionne hoisting up various weapons and items in its many hands.
The temple complex they had entered in the other cavern opened up inside a flower carved out of stone in this one, with corridors making up its stems and petals. This flower, was set upon one of the statue’s hands.
The water flowed where the Dhionne’s veins would be, and it cried rivers of tears, each no smaller than the underground streams they had seen before. But the sorrow of the statue didn’t give rise to empathy within him, just fear and awe.
‘It’s like the Water Temple from that popular video game with the time-travelling ocarina.’ Elrhain thought with nostalgia as he now ran his hands over the etchings on the door. The material felt cold like metal, yet grainy like wood.
‘I wonder what the locking mechanism is?’ There was a paragraph written in an unknown tongue carved on it. The inscriptions slid under his fingers seamlessly, as if the creators of this place had shaped the door around it, and not the other way around.
He looked up and found the writings snake towards the ceiling in neat yet twisting rows.
Elrhain couldn’t understand what they conveyed but was sure it wasn’t Uorian. These words even moved, which none of the scripts on the scrolls he had seen had done. With a jolt and a shake, they hid into the gaps of the walls as his eyes followed them before his tiny brain could even comprehend what happened.
*Creak*
‘Ah, wait, it was the door which moved.’
Elrhain stepped back as the giant panel started sliding left with the noise of rusty gears. A few seconds later, the door was gone with a clink and a clank.
Another tunnel lay behind the now open entrance; a gust of warm wind rushed out as if to greet them. It flew past the two standing in the corridor into the cavern outside to open walls, raising echoes of the gale in the vast space of the crying statue.
Elrhain peered at this tunnel’s walls. They looked flat, smooth even. They still had cracks here and there, but with a utilitarian industrial flavour as a whole.
He turned to Agwyn in askance, and she shot back the same look. There was a clump of moss she found somewhere in her hands, and she kept squeezing it like a plushie.
Elrhain felt a pat on his shoulder and saw it was Elder Croneira.
The old woman looked eerie in this dim lighting, but her tone was gentler than before. “Follow servant Thomos inside. But let him know immediately if you feel… unwell. Can you do that, boy?”
Elrhain nodded, swallowing in uncertainty as his eyes crossed with Agwyn’s once again.
“Good, good. Don’t worry about the heiress, though it warms my heart you do.” Elder Croneira said with a good-natured smile. Yet her crooked teeth and wrinkly skin sent goosebumps through his body.
The old woman muttered under her breath, “I will escort the princess myself. You two will always be within 10 meters of each other, even with this wall in the middle. It will be fine.”
‘What will be fine? Why would I feel unwell?’ Elrhain remembered all those stories about miners and cave explorers dropping like flies because of the stagnant air and carbon monoxide deep within the Earth.
He wanted to question her, but the old lady shushed him. Elder Croneira thought intently for a few more moments. Then gently but suddenly, she held Agwyn by the hand while stepping inside.
Agwyn didn’t want to go.
She cried out and stretched her hands towards Elrhain with a pleading look. But the sudden tug had taken her by surprise, and she was already inside the right tunnel.
Elrhain tried to rush in, but Thomos stopped him.
“Young master, don’t be hasty.” The servant said, trying to calm Elrhain down.
Thomos then gestured towards the tunnel and stuck his hand in. Elrhain’s eyes widened in shock as ripples appeared in space. An invisible barrier stopped Thomos’s hand from going in any further.
Elder Croneira stood on the other side of the ripples, sighing. Her expression looked both annoyed and humourous as if she was trying hard to hold in a smirk and bring out a scowl, “Aye, you two are making us look like villains.”
They both blushed, and the Elder laughed. “Children, there is no need to be so afraid. This is simply another part of the ritual for the heir and heiress’s engagement and inaugural ceremony. No man can enter the wife’s door, and no lady can enter the other.”
She stopped for a bit to look over their faces, and Elrhain felt his cheeks heat up even further. That smile on Elder Croneira’s face was mortifying.
“The two clan shamans inside will explain to you what to do, and I cannot tell you more. Since this is not even my jurisdiction. Greats spirits, what I do for the clan.”
With a few more promises, persuasions, and one last hug from Agwyn, who had come out of the tunnel later, they were finally willing to go in.
But the fear rising from deep within Elrhain’s chest didn’t abate as he watched the last visage of Elder Croneira and Agwyn’s silhouette vanish into the darkness.




Chapter 14 - Two Parts of the Same Stone

‘It’ll be alright.’ Elrhain pushed down the nauseous fear in his chest. ‘It’s not like we won’t see each other again.’
He then scoffed, slapping his cheeks hard with both palms. The noise rang in the empty cavern like a bronze gong, and servant Thomos almost jumped out of his shoes in fright.
‘Dammit, Elrhain, stop acting like a Romeo. This is ridiculous.’
Elrhain sat down on the damp floor and took a few more minutes to calm down and think about the issue. He then smiled as the exact haunting words he said to Agwyn so long ago bubbled up in his chest just now.
‘I almost threw up after Agwyn went inside, didn’t I? When she left my sights completely….’ 
He reflected on those split seconds of his guts churning like venom. He could smell the stink of vomit in his throat and the tight pain in his chest. It was suffocating; he could not breathe.
It was weird.
The nausea and pain rapidly retreated after that, as fast as they had come. But they never died out. Even now, he could feel something missing, as if something both physical and spiritual had been ripped from his being.
This violent reaction on both his mind and body was bewildering, to say the least. He had long outgrown high-school lover drama where he would feel physical pain not seeing his girlfriend for five minutes.
Yet here he was, feeling precisely that. 
‘Sure, we have seldom ever left each other’s sight the last three cycles. But this is just retarded. There has got to be more to this… ill condition. Wait, could this be what Elder Croneira was talking about?’
Wiping the saliva from the corners of his mouth, he glanced up at Thomos with critical eyes.
The servant stared back at him with an anxious expression, then looked away. The man was half crouched as if to help him up, but his hands had stopped awkwardly in the air. Elrhain beamed at him a smile, and Thomos’s face froze in shock.
“Mister Thomos, I’m ready. Let’s go in.” Elrhain said, noticing the shock morph into surprise across the man’s visage.
Thomos was scrawny and had gills on his neck. His skin was somewhat blue, and Elrhain noticed a thin webbing between his fingers when he let the nervous man hold his hand. But Thomos never held it too tight, as if afraid Elrhain would get hurt.
Elrhain didn’t appreciate that, but he would ponder upon this issue of masters and servants later.
The corridor, like the rest of this underground world, had an ambient blue and green glow. The walls had this metallic sheen, with creaks of luminous water running along cracks. 
Elrhain could not see any murals on the surfaces, which he now found out of place in this mural laden underground world. 
The repeated thudding of two footsteps, one quiet and the other timid accompanied them as they made their way through. And the boy fell into a trance. The silent steps helped him still his restless heart, but he did not seem to realize the passing of time.
Before he knew it, the passageway opened up into another cavernous room. The light inside was bright as the suns when the boy crossed the threshold, and Elrhain felt his vision go blind in white.
He closed his eyes and covered them with his palms for a few breaths of time, only letting a small groan escape his lips as the sudden deprivation of senses. 
When he opened them again, he saw a roof full of spheres that shone like sunlight reaching from the ground below to the very ceilings above, and Thomos nowhere to be seen. He craned his neck back down again and found the servant.
Along with two other men.
Dofnald stood there by the far wall, wearing an elaborate ceremonial attire that fit him like a k-pop idol. He talked respectfully to a hunched figure in blue robes holding a white staff before turning towards the crouching boy at the entrance.
“Rhain.” His father called him, “Come.”
Elrhain obliged. He knew some people might take Dofnald’s short utterances as signs of disinterest or mock. But to him, that was just Dofnald being Dofnald. Everyone had their ticks. Bromwyn was boisterous, Eluned was timid, and Cyra was an air-headed menace. Speaking of which…
‘I hope Agwyn’s met her mother by now. Knowing her, she’s probably sniffing around the cracks in the corridor.’ He chuckled at the image. 
“Wait, young master.” Thomos suddenly spoke; tension coloured his meek voice. 
The servant pointed towards the wall on the right, saying, “Please walk along this wall, um, as per Elder Croneira’s words. So you don’t stray too far from the princess.”
Elrhain nodded, stepping forward with his hand lightly brushing the bumpy partition that divided him from her. 
‘I am willing to bet all my spice patents; that distance has something to do with our malady.’
As he neared the two older Dhionne, he noticed that the shaman’s robes were fashioned out of fish scales, and the staff was made of translucent bone-like cartilage. It even had the skull of some small creature on the top, the jaws clanking up and down as the old man tapped the staff on the stone floor.
The shaman looked only a little less wizened than Elder Croneira but way more than Thundham. He was also antlered, just like Elder Sonora. 
But much to Elrhain’s relief, the shaman’s smile gave off a pleasant feeling, not a disdainful sneer like the other antlered man. His eyes were big and blue; even the sclera was light indigo. They looked perfectly in place on his aged face.
Elrhain hopped on the stone stage where his father and the shaman stood and bowed cordially like his mother taught him.
Before he could straighten his back, though, he felt a pat on his head.
It was the shaman.
The old man then plucked a few strands of Elrhain’s hair,
“Ouch!”
…poked his body at the joints with the staff.
“Hey!”
…and finally tugged the robe he was wearing, stretching it up for a closer sniff.
“Stop that, you perverted coon!”
Elrhain’s childlike shout echoed in the chamber. The servant Thomos stumbled on the ground, and Dofnald coughed a few times in embarrassment.
When Elrhain finally stopped huffing and puffing, he saw the old shaman look down at him with a grin on his ugly face.
“Haha, quite spirited, ain’tcha?”
Elrhain clenched his tiny fists and punched, committing the first violent act of this life. But the shaman just hopped away with booming Santa Clause guffaws.
Elrhain, on the other hand, was about to trip over because his fists missed their target. But before his face could hit the ground, his father held him up by the armpits from behind, and he settled down.
“Father, can you let me down? I have to beat up a paedophile.”
“Pe-What?”
Elrhain sighed, “Just let me down.”
Dofnald nodded, and Elrhain felt his feet touch the ground. 
He looked up at his father and asked, “Why didn’t you stop that old man when he hit me with a stick?”
Dofnald thought for a while before saying, “Grand Elder ordered the rite.”
“… can you explain more clearly?”
Dofnald scratched his head. A few seconds later, he continued, “Your hair, as a reagent for the rite. The staff pushed… rejuvenating manna in your body’s joints. Your clothes, Eluned, made them with special treasures with Elder Croneira’s teaching. Shaman checked quality.”
That was the most Elrhain heard his father say in one go. 
‘Rejuvenating?’ 
Elrhain patted his body all over and noticed that the fatigue he had felt from the journey—even though he walked little himself, was gone. Then he heard the detested shaman speak again.
“Excellent! Well, the attire could have looked better, but the Azhrite is rubbed in well. This will do perfectly.”
Elrhain looked towards Dofnald, pointing at the deranged old man. “Father?”
“Shaman Maeog.”
“… not his name. But thank you.”
Dofnald looked at him and smiled, “You are welcome.”
Elrhain had seen boy bands and male idols in his past life, with his nieces and especially Miramarja posting their pictures all over their social media, bedrooms, and secret bases. Yet he had never seen such a handsome man, ever.
Elrhain shook his head to get rid of that ridiculous thought and asked another question, “The rite… is it magical?”
“Yes. For heiress’s inaugural and this time, betrothal too.” Dofnald said. “Great honour. It happens once every”
There was another pause as he thought it over, “Every time there is a new heiress who also has a betrothed.”
“Yeah, thank you, captain obvious.”
“… you are welcome?”
Elrhain felt something wet touch his cramping face. The old shaman was finger painting some tattoos there while muttering incoherently before the little boy could scream expletives.
Elrhain considered if it was even worth it to lash out and found the answer to be no. So with dwindling fury in his chest, he turned back towards Dofnald and continued his questioning.
“Why am I getting betrothed to Annie? I heard father and mother were servants before we were born, and she is the chieftain’s daughter.”
Dofnald paused, angling his head towards the far wall. A complicated look flashed past his eyes.
Elrhain followed his gaze to find more murals there. But these ones were more intricate, complete, and had a depth to them that the ruined ones outside didn’t.
‘Huh?’
He suddenly noticed that even Shaman Maeog had slowed down the paint job as he peered at Dofnald with a sharp glint. Elrhain could hear a deep inhale from someplace behind him, too. It was the servant Thomos, who had otherwise been entirely silent this whole time.
‘Should I have not asked that in people’s presence?’ He thought.
“… Can’t tell you. I pledged not to in public. Grand Elder will explain later.” Finally, Dofnald acknowledged with a sigh, casting an apologetic look at Maeog, who just huffed. He then glanced at Elrhain with his five-star smile back on his face. 
“Chieftain, Grand Shamanka, and Grand Elder’s arrangement for you two. Secrecy is necessary, but I trust them. They are good folks. They treat us like family. Give us freedom, and let us choose a name.”
Elrhain looked disappointed with the answer but didn’t press further. And a split second after that, the speed of the finger painting, which had slowed a tad, picked up again.
“Rhain, don’t worry. Everything will be ok. Trust us.”
He knew that, and he trusted them. But,
‘Ugh, that makes me even more curious. Even though it’s about us, they can at least trust me in return that my-,’ Elrhain looked at his tiny palms and chubby arms, ‘Oh… right. We still toddlers.’
“There, all finished. Quite an outstanding job, if I say so myself. You look just as our Earthloch ancestor did when he married the lake mother.” Shaman Maeog said after removing his fingers from Elrhain’s face.
The old man put his dry hand on Elrhain’s chin to move the boy’s head left and right for a final one over. “And the lines wonderfully align with all the nodes on your head. Honestly, I would say I was quite unsatisfied with the upper echelon’s choice of heir consort before today. But,”
Maeog pulled away, looking extremely satisfied. “I’ve never seen two Dhionne’s souls match up so thoroughly in all the rites I’ve performed. And believe me, I’ve performed many. Not to mention, this rite is especially complex since you will be betrothed with the magic of Epoch crossing.”
Elrhain’s eyes widened, ignoring the offhand insult and the grand speech of magic, “You can see Annie’s too? She’s not here!”
Shaman Maeog laughed aloud, reaching into the sleeves of his robes. From there, he took out a parchment scroll.
“Of course not, young heir Siaglas. No man can peer into the chamber for the heiress.”
“Then how?” Elrhain looked at the scroll, intrigued.
The elder scrutinized him with a grin, then said to Dofnald, “Eager little one you have got here, Reanakt Siaglas.”
Dofnald smiled proudly.
“But I’ve always appreciated the curious ones. They tend to walk the true path of rites and mages rather than all the muscle flair of warriors like you.”
Dofnald shifted awkwardly.
Shaman Maeog laughed again and looked back towards Elrhain, opening the scroll up with a swipe of his hand. He didn’t stop Elrhain when the boy peered over the drawings on it.
“We, the shamans of the rites, were simply provided with an abstraction of both of your manna nodes, channels, and frames the previous cycle.” He placed his fingers on the numerous rough diagrams and strange anatomical sketches of what could only be two young Dhionne babies.
‘That’s us!’
There were lines of many colours connecting their frames from one point to another on the scroll, with abstract smudges and shapes scribbled all over.
“The grand Shamanka ordered us to not only to establish the flawless patterns for the rite but that it would be for children of barely three cycles. Children uninitiated in the ways of manna no less!”
The shaman stroked his wiry beard. “‘Madness’, I thought at first. Trying to bond two babes like this is suicidal. The recoil of these,” He excitedly pointed out various points on the diagrams, and Elrhain let out some Ahhs and Oohs at the sight. 
This animated the old man even more. “uneven nodes will kill you. But after we toiled months and seasons to complete them, the results left us absolutely dumbfounded.”
Shaman Maeog threw his hands up with joy. “The completed sigils of inheritance and union for you two had fallen perfectly into place! Like two halves of the same stone. Yours on hers, and hers on yours. It was as if all that unevenness were made even when we compared you two together and not separately. Yet!”
Shaman Maeog took a deep breath, and Elrhain cursed this world for not having pocket notebooks. He really wanted to jot all of this down.
“Yet now we do. Of course, only me, the finest ritualist of Earthlochs, could have even conceived such magnificent and sophisticated patterns, so quickly, so exquisitely.” The old man concluded his sermon with another round of laughter.
“I thank you.” Dofnald bowed his head, bringing the shaman’s boast to an ideal end.
Maeog just waved his hand, saying, “No need, my young Reanakt. Just doing my duty.”
Elrhain was delighted, adjusting his opinion of the old fellow.
He still hated him for being a pervert and wished to grief him hard. 
But he loved braggarts, respected even. They could never keep information to themselves. And that was of much higher priority to Elrhain than some petty vengeance.
He wanted to ask a few more essential questions. For example, what the heck did those diagrams even mean?
But then his dad pulled him towards the far wall, leaving the old shaman laughing there alone.
Dofnald kneeled down to his eye level and pointed towards the murals on the wall, saying with a solemn face,
“Let them dance.”





Chapter 15 - Dance of Genesis

“Let who what?”
Dofnald tilted his head.
Elrhain did the same.
After a few seconds, his father finally realized that he forgot to explain out the details of exactly what he had to do. Elrhain could almost hear the unspoken ‘Aha!’
“Dance of prayers and blessings, to the hundred thousand lakes of Earthloch.” He gestured towards the lower-left corner of the wall of murals. “Start there. Then follow right. When you… reach the end. Go up. Then left again. Continue until you reach the upper right side.”
Dofnald tapped Elrhain’s forehead softly with his index finger, “Feel our ancestors commands, let them in.”
Elrhain rubbed his left eye. A fleck of dust must have fallen in when he had angled his head up to take in the huge wall. He wanted to get a full view of all the murals.
A casual glance told him there were thousands of steps and tens of layers. Each was drawn in ambiguous lines, both simple like cave art and sophisticated like anatomical illustrations. 
They depicted a ritualistic movement impossible for most humans, or as his father called it, ‘A Dance’.
Something way above his toddler body’s motor skills.
“… You expect me to learn all this before midnight? Even if I somehow managed that, I don’t think I can pull the actual dance off during the rite, okay?” Elrhain said incredulously.
“Not learn, feel them. Don’t worry. The land, the spirits, and our ancestors will do the rest.”
‘Well, that answered absolutely nothing.’ 
“… Um, Elder Croneira said the shaman would explain it to me—you know what, let me give it a shot first.” Seeing his father’s shoulders droop, Elrhain sighed and decided to humour the man. 
“Good luck, Rhain.” Dofnald cheered up, showing him the million-credit smile. He then walked away, leaving Elrhain standing alone on the stone podium.
“… Are all fathers puppies?”
***
Elrhain stood there on the right edge of the giant grey stage, struggling to make sense of these spirit-forsaken dances. 
‘Let’s see. Arms go like this, legs go-ahg!’
He plopped to the ground on his butt.
“I’m okay, I’m okay. Father, stay there! I can do this.”
When the blush at last faded from his face, he was about to get up for another try but thought against it.
‘Feel, he said.’
Elrhain sat there with his cheeks resting on his palms and focused his gaze on the bottom-left most mural.
It looked odd, unbalanced, and blurry since the distance was so great, like trying to see the feathers of a bird soaring in the sky.
But rapidly, the mural in his eyes cleared until the blurriness was all but gone. The surroundings seemed to warp a slight, like a combination of fisheye and bird’s eye view, with every pixel in focus. But he felt no discomfort.
Because his brain erased out the disorientation.
Elrhain could see the entirety of the wall and every detail in high resolution, and he could concentrate on just one particular part if he so wished. Just like how he could see the suns when he first examined them in depth.
‘The starting line.’ 
Feeling the waltz in the mural without the help of imitation, touch, or a lick was nigh impossible. And the stones didn’t look particularly sterile either. So, he did the only thing he could. 
He analyzed it.
‘Trace it with my eyes, connect the lines, and try to make sense.’
The first step showed two Dhionne figures—one holding a staff in his hands, the other carrying a jar at her hips. 
There was no face drawn, merely a teardrop shape for the head. But Elrhain could swear the figures were looking at each other. And,
‘That looks like Annie.’ 
The thought piqued his interest. 
‘…if Annie was twenty cycles older.’
The next mural showed the first figure slowly rotating his staff in a clockwise motion. The movements of his arms were strange, physically impossible for Elrhain. As if it wasn’t the hands that were gripping the staff, but something else.
Annie, No, the second figure whirled around, the water leaving her jar in a swirling wave. But the flow hung in the air like magic. They spiralled her in irregular orbits, as if they were strips of ribbons with one end tied to the jar and the other end whipping gently like a fountain. 
The streams slowly elongated as more lines of water fell out from the clay vessel. Then they tore apart in two. 
Half stayed by the woman, and the other half swayed to the staff. The man inside the water curtains ran his hands through one current.
Until his hand found hers. 
They clasped gently, and the cavern faded from Elrhain’s vision.
*** 
A curve at the hips, a twist to the left. One leg up, let him support the waist.
Lift one hand up and the other under her spine, twirl her in the stream. 
Wash away the past, but don’t let go.
The limbs, the backs, the chests and the heads.
Everything flowed in a unique tempo, like waves on a serene lake. 
Like the snakes and fish, gliding free.
It felt natural, stimulating, seductive, and sensual.
He was inviting her to a tango of creation, with the void as the audience.
She peeked around and found no one there. It was lonely, oh so… lonely.
‘Huh?’
The limbs tangled more. It did more than tangle.
The figures became one. Thus there was three.
The third one left, towards the discs of green.
The first two danced, and the mist danced with them.
Enveloping, caressing, like their lustful aim.
Like a shawl of dim flame.
Opaque like nectar, covering nothing but their shame.
‘Love, oh sinful ones, and the flower’s immoral glory.’
Not enough were the eyes of one other, so they birthed a gallery. 
The void grew, and the barren discs did too.
Progenies, life, trees and fish in the lagoons.
Hence, they came, and there was wars’ greedy tune.
‘… I’ve seen this. But where?’
The drums beat; the horns blew. 
The tides swept the earth of all that grew. 
Yet the water was fresh, and then it was warm. 
Like a mother’s embrace, a father’s loving arm.
Protecting, nurturing, from the evil that alarmed.
Something was above! Bright, holy, scorching!
Angels! Figures of fire and feathers, it was salvation they were forging. 
They flew down, tearing the void. 
Raining lightning, stars, and the souls they toyed.
Steam!
The water sizzled, the blood of life rose, with the earth cracked and the skies they ashed.
Prayers, cries, screams, pleading, anguish, hatred, revenge, power, death, and everything clashed.
They came again, and again, and the figures cried in vain.
Again, again, the Angels campaigned.
Their baskets full of children, and their heart-rendering cries. 
Their souls, life, and bleak, hopeless eyes.
The two figures watched, with nothing left behind.
They cannot fight; the angels had more than one measly life.
But not did their children, only deaths by the knives.
The figures had none, so it was a futile sight.
So, they danced and danced, and more children they romanced.
They prayed, they loved, and Eons amassed.
The crying spirits around, their misty eyes aghast.
Unseen to the figures, till the last children passed.
‘A beast, a tree, a myth, a beetle, and a cloud blazed alight.’
They were the first to cry, and first were they to fight. 
More soon came; from within, the hearts unite.
And thus came the Angels, singing hymns of a harvest so ripe.
The discs darkened of life, with no words and song and laughter to inscribe.
Yet stayed did the spirits, for they had a different form of life.
Of a better, weaker, purer, more naïve design.
Slain by the Angels, but the souls survived.
‘… But so did the angels, with only two revived.’ 
The father sang in joy, and the mother sang in sorrow; their hopes no longer marred.
So they danced, and loved, and watched and cried, for the spirits that warred. 
The first five died, the Angels did not spare.
But soon from within, stronger spirits appeared. 
And in this war, some children were not sheared.
Each time a hundred; and nine times they dared.
The spirits more came, more powerful than the five. 
They joined in the war, with the angels deprived.
And for the first time ever, the angels too did die.
The figures sang in praise, as the spirits rejoiced.
The progeny learnt to dance, with their souls and their lives. 
Watched by the spirits, the song of discs they voiced.
‘… but the children hid from their parents, the pain their hearts hoist.’
******
Elrhain found himself in darkness, singing along with a strange song. Or was it a poem? He did not know.
The rustle of the robe on his skin was missing. And the sweet smell of moss in the caverns no longer preoccupied his mind. 
He was not here in body, he deduced, as he watched on from far above. 
His eyes saw everything like an omniscient god. He saw the first two figures fade as thousands more appeared. They spread from disc to disc, bringing along the spirits and manna.
Two new figures, one man and a woman, danced on the disc directly below him. The spirits of the north watched contently from the waters, skies, and the mountains in the surrounding. 
The blues, greens, and everything in between glowed bright about to misty surfaces. Yet, the reds, violets, yellows, golds and all others slept a peaceful slumber under the Earth.
‘Weird, why only blue?’
They did not jeer or hiss as the figures tapped their foot clumsily on a dais. They didn’t leave for the eight other daises that floated on that disc. Not even for the one that blazed right in the middle.
The figure there, the one above the blaze, moved with grace and purpose. But it wasn’t dancing which the spirits surrounding him liked. It was,
‘Combat!’,
Elrhain looked around the void. His disembodied vision travelled infinite distances in all directions.
‘There were thousands of bright discs like the one under my being, and uncountable dark discs with no figures to be seen.’ He sang again, but it sounded wrong. The jagged tune of the song made his mind recoil as if he no longer belonged here.
So he decided to leave, but the story hadn’t ended yet. It wouldn’t let him go.
He once again observed all the discs. Threads in the void connected them to each other like puzzle pieces, but they could never fit.
His vision moved by itself to the ones with light.
Each shining disc, the brights had a mural of one step of an unknown dance, or a strange art of war, maybe? And no discs had two. They each had nine daises, with each dais having one or more figures moving on top. 
But not all brights had a dais that blazed.
The discs that did have one shone brilliant with an inferno at the centre. Their dance more whole than the rest.
He only counted nine discs with such blazes, including his own. Yet the north dais was the only one that danced…
‘Which… dance?’
Elrhain shook his head. An image, like a needle pricking his brain, burned him from inside. But he pushed it down and concentrated on his eyes. 
Something was begging him to watch on, and he obliged.
His eyes were back to the first disc, to the north dais.
The other daises had their own galleries, with the most bustling one indeed in the middle. The audiences were all the spawn of the first five and the stronger ones that came after.
It was true for the north as well. He observed the group of blue and green spirits surrounding the two clumsy figures. Some he knew, like the snakes, fishes, crabs, and snails. 
While the others were nameless, Dhionne and Faediaga, animals and plants, and myths and monsters.
The two danced hysterically as if something was chasing them.
But then they slowed. Their forms still graceless, but the spirits could see their pure souls. 
So they came closer. Till the manna touched them all. And the past flew away.
A blessing for the clan, a blessing to the disc, and another to the spirits. Then four to the heavens and the earths, the oceans and the voids.
Elrhain felt vigour course through his soul. The pain in his mind melted like the snow in spring, and the water that remained left his body unharmed.
The gentle torrents then converged, shaping themselves into a black star that floated above the dais.
He kept on watching as the dais became a kaleidoscope. Chants, prayers, and soothing howls of the spirits resounded from all around.
Finally, the spirits had all left, and the two figures sat alone. The female kneeled first, followed by the male. 
Their hands were no longer held together.
But there were threads of blue and green and red, connecting the hands they had once clasped. The threads wove in the air, each passing through the black star as they did.
One final blessing, this one to each other. 
The black star reminded Elrhain once again, that these weren’t the figures from the start of the story. 
They had no staff or jar. They were foreign, clumsy, profane, and caring.
Elrhain smiled.
Then the Angels came. 
And he woke up.




Chapter 16 - The Fruitgirl Express
Elrhain sat up with a start. His breath got caught in his lungs as he huffed and puffed, coughing at the sudden shock. The world span around, and he hurriedly put his hands on the ground to steady himself.
He was dancing, and there were weird floating creatures with no internal organs, and the Gigantomachy was singing epics, and then the stars shot down like meteorites, and everyone died like ants-
A hand gently touched his shoulder, and he snapped his head up.
His father looked at him with eyes full of concern. “Welcome back. Are you well?”
“What was that?” Elrhain frantically asked; his hands trembled as he caught hold of his father’s sleeves. The sweat rolled down from his forehead like a waterfall while he struggled to stand up.
That vision, a dream from the ancestors, felt like he had fallen from a thousand kilometres high, with the ground nowhere to be seen. Like a hypnic jerk, even though he was awake. 
“What the heck was that?!”
Dofnald shook his head. The young man picked Elrhain up from the ground and rested the hysterical boy’s head on his shoulders. He then turned towards Maeog. 
The old shaman currently had his eyes closed as he meditated without sound on a mossy boulder. He looked no more alive than the stone he sat on, but a few twitching fingers told Elrhain otherwise.
“Four hours and eighteen minutes. Long, I would say.” Maeog muttered, opening one eye, “Don’t bother asking your father, boy. Even I, the Grand Shamanka, or Grand Elder, won’t be able to explain what you’ve seen. Each vision is unique. Meant only for each heir or heiress of Earthloch. You alone can decipher what it showed you.”
“Only in inaugurations do the great lakes send them.” The old man jumped down from the rock and dropped in front of Elrhain like a blur. Depending on the event, like this time’s spirit blessed betrothal, the lakes may show you images of two different futures. Answer me this, young heir. Were we blessed?”
Elrhain’s foggy mind started to sort itself. He came out from the frenzy and took a few deep breaths. Finally, with effort, he nodded.
The old shaman grinned. “Then all is well!”
Elrhain didn’t think so.
***
“Ewwieeee!” The moment he left the chamber with his father and Thomos—Maeog staying behind for more of his shamany duties—a shadow with leafy pigtails and hair flowing behind tackled into him like a bull, screaming incoherent nonsense in Uorian.
“Ugh!” Elrhain’s soul left his body again, and he would have fallen if his father hadn’t promptly supported him. “Annie, are you trying to kill me?”
“T-They want to make us d-dance wike that, in front of people!” The little girl sobbed. 
If he didn’t know her actual age, even he would have considered giving her a candy and take her to the lost children’s corner. Not to push her off in irritation as he did now. 
Yet the adults around them smiled at their antics, not minding her evident violent tendencies.
Was this the reason she had been talking more in Uorian when people other than their family were around? To weaponize her adorable lisp?
“No, they won’t. Stop hugging me; I can’t breathe.” Elrhain tried to push the girl away again but failed; her grip was too firm. So he could only clear her doubts.
Elrhain himself had also grumbled about this issue before leaving the chamber. Those dancing figures got a little too… passionate at times.
They were children, for all that is moral’s sake! He would rather die again than have a mark of public indecency on his name.
So, he asked the shaman and his father, cautiously, if he had to dance exactly like so.
The two didn’t know why Elrhain was so flustered or why he kept beating around the bush trying to ask a question. Maeog even called him cute smartarse for being shy, the old man ending up with another blasting laughter.
But,
“‘Just take the jar and staff to the alter, and the ancestors will teach you the rites. Also, never before was there an heir who had to actually dance, or do anything of the sort, really. It was always more like a metaphor, the dance of blessings.’ They said.”
“… weally?”
“Yes.”
Agwyn visibly relaxed. Then giggled as she patted his face.
“You wuk like Rafiki!”
“You look like Miramarja scribbled on your face again.”
They both giggled, remembering Agwyn’s bratty grandniece from hell. That girl had a mission to be the greatest prankster the Collective had ever seen.
To be honest, Elrhain was as relieved as a cloud reuniting with the girl despite his complaints. 
The physical discomfort and mental strain, the slight ache inside him whispering that something was missing. 
They were gone. Vanished into puffs of smoke the moment Agwyn rammed into him with the force of a truck. Perhaps those feelings were the very reason why she kept squeezing him so hard right now?
His head cleared up like the sky after a rain. The frenzy couldn’t stop him from thinking anymore.
The cogs turned, and keys clicked. The questions flooded his mind from the deep psyche as if they had been waiting impatiently like preschoolers before summer vacation.
‘Dance lewdly, she said.’ Elrhain mused, ‘But wasn’t each vision unique? Maybe it isn’t if we do the rite together? But we had one vision, and not two, unlike what Maeog said! Do all heirs have to get engaged when they get initiated? No, that would be ridiculous.’
He broke out of his speculations when he saw Agwyn scuttle back towards Elder Croneira, who watched the cavern outside the corridor pillars with a contemplative expression.
And as he predicted, Cyra stood beside her.
The extraordinary woman with water below the waist was also wearing ceremonial clothes, identical to Dofnald’s in design.
‘So the man’s father and wife’s mother? Did this tradition come from the gender restrictions on these chambers, or did the traditions come first?’
Elrhain saw his father politely bow towards the two. 
Cyra was joking around with everyone in the vicinity, even servant Thomos. The meek servant talking so candidly looked remarkably at ease while speaking with the chieftainess.
That made Elrhain’s eyebrows twitch. ‘Why was he so jumpy with me, then?’
“All right,” Elder Croneira clapped, “There is not a lot of time until the midnight moon unveils. The heiress and the heir took three hours longer than we had expected. How will the chieftainess and Reanakt Siaglas bring the two above in time?”
Dofnald and Cyra’s demeanor changed. 
“My, that is a dilemma.” Cyra then giggled. “Good thing we have me!”
She glanced towards Dofnald and threw him a wink.
‘That’s not enough, lady.’ Elrhain groaned.
Three winks later, Cyra realized Dofnald didn’t pick up her meaning. So she puffed her cheeks, saying, “Skies can fly, duh!”
“Oh.” was all his father said. He then gave the chieftainess a nod.
“Great!” The woman cheered and picked up her daughter. As did Dofnald with Elrhain.
“Mommy?” Agwyn called out in confusion when Cyra tied the girl to her body with filaments of water. They went up and around the little girl’s robes but didn’t press down tight.
Agwyn didn’t look uncomfortable either, simply strumming the filaments like a guitar string. A mellow twang rang out.
“Father should be dying of boredom, having to sit with those squabbling lesser nobles. The Grand Shamanka should have readied the alter by now too,” Cyra kissed her daughter’s nose while talking.
“The best part is, the feast cannot commence until the clan hath been blessed. Clan traditions strictly require them to fast today until the ceremony ends. Those Yuriel pretenders and clan zealots should be blowing their tops in hunger by now.”
Elder Croneira facepalmed, “Chieftainess, this is no time for jokes. And… you lot, what are you laughing at!”
The servants who were eavesdropping in ran away like a headless flock of chickens. They seemed livelier than the servants Elrhain saw in Lochuir and the other settlements. 
Definitely not like the fidgety ones who served in their own courtyard three cycles ago.
“I know, I was just wondering is all. By the way, lord Siaglas, would you mind tying this aqua-vine to yourself and little Rhain? It will be safer that way.”
Elrhain saw his father’s finger jerk. But the man still received the extended… appendage. A few seconds after that when Dofnald had tied an initial knot, the aqua-vine flew in by itself and wrapped around both of them snugly.
Elrhain gave the closest one to his face a lick. It tasted like fruit pulp. So, he licked some more.
“Ew, little Rhain, you pervert!” Cyra chided the boy in faux-shame. Elrhain curled up his body to hide the blush when he realized Cyra could still feel the sense of touch with the water.
He absolutely wasn’t scared of Agwyn’s mean glare, he assured himself.
“Fantastic. Now, Gwyn, Rhain, remember not to panic, alright? Breathe gently and keep your eyes open. Mommy will do something fun.”
“… How fun?” Agwyn asked.
‘Skies can fly. Wait, is she going to?!’ The signals flashed before Elrhain’s eyes like a warning sign. He had a dreadful premonition when he jolted his head up to see Cyra and Dofnald standing on the threshold of the corridor floor, right above the hundreds of meter plunge below.
“Please don’t do-!” Elrhain shouted.
But before he could tell the airheaded slug monster not to do anything stupid, she dissolved into a spiraling, seething flood of flying water.
The sapient river in the air swirled like a hurricane, and an excited Agwyn giggled along as she floated up and down the flowing streams. Threads of blue light protected her from the tides, as it now did Elrhain and the silent Dofnald.
An eye-blink later, before Elrhain could even take his first breath, the blue torrents shot up towards one aqueduct like a pouncing nest of serpents, as if they planned on warring against time itself. 
The echoes of one scream in terror and another in glee were the only thing they left behind as the four were swept away by the roaring cascade.






Chapter 17 - Grand Elder's Woes 

Thundham Elmar Earthloch, the Grand Elder of the Earthloch clan and one of the three remaining sky realmers of the Siorrakty, sat somberly on the seat of honour at a clearing about five hundred meters away from the Loch Sagathan Temple. 
The site was bustling with thousands of tribesmen of all backgrounds. They were seated on the tree branches or standing on the fringes and slopes all throughout the valley as far as the eyes could see. Anywhere with an unrestricted view of the projection of the Loch Sagathan Temple on the Scrying Curtain in the sky, and people scrambled to make themselves comfortable there.
Talking articulately on Thundham's left were a group of branch House Elders and Headsmen, all low nobility, from the lowest Onthoakts to the Reanakts. Finally, the Loch Pailakts wearing attire a few levels fancier than those sitting on his right.
"I can hardly understand it, my good lords." A beefy man with gravel-jagged skin spoke while running his fingers over his shiny cuffs. "What could the Siorrakt be thinking?"
Another Dhionne, wrapped from head to toe in the coat of a bear, expressed with a melodramatic sigh, "Only the ancestors may know, Headman Laerock… I fear the day the other noble clans learn of this! Ah, we won't be able to show our faces in the Yuriel Impelakty's grand jamboree in shame."
"I concur, Onthoakt Ursan," Elder Sonora, who sat right beside Thundham, lamented, "A herb tenderer, of all things! I spoke to her in the presence of the Siorrakt, her feeble son hiding behind Lord Bromwyn like a scared birdling. You should have seen their unlettered display! It was simply appalling."
Elder Sonora clasped his forehead with one hand and steadied himself to the ground with the other. As though he, a mid-oceanic realmer, would suddenly lose balance and fall while sitting cross-legged on a putuan.
The antlered noble returned to his denunciation with vigour. 
"What can such absence of talents bring to the mighty Earthloch? How can one of such lowly bloods be worthy of our spirit gifted princess, who bears the finest intrinsic manna-born crests and cultivation roots on her person?!"
The antlered Dhionne shot a questioning glance at Thundham, with the other Elders on the left gasping out loud their shocked drawn-out exclamations in various dramatic poses. 
The haughty lords of his dominion were far more dissatisfied by the clans' choice of heir consort than he thought. But complain as they might, the three leaders decision of heir consort will never be taken back once finalized. Well, in this case, to those outside of the main house, the heiress and heir consort would have to be respectfully addressed as princess and prince consort.
Thundham almost chuckled at the thought, imagining these folks who put pride before life having to refer to a former servant's son in a subservient manner.
Truth to be told, he too was once vastly disappointed in Elrhain's potential, especially that in cultivation. 
The status of a servant wasn't an issue. Many a time, the clan accepted the marriage of talented lowborn men and women with their scions. It granted new weight to their bloodline. Many noble families even encouraged it since it also brought a variety in their inheritance. 
Yet this boy's various roots of cultivation were simply pathetic. 
The nodes in his flesh and soul overlapped as haphazardly as imaginable. The channels of his lattice felt knotted, thin, and shrivelled, like a withered bush in the barren south-west rather than a shrub of the woodlands of the north. 
Last but not least, of the frames he could actually form in the future, the circles looked more like rhombuses, and the triangles were never not skewed in the weirdest possible directions—the twisted channels from one node to another seemed like they had love affairs with nineteen other nodes in the neighbourhood.
A talent so poor it was impressive, even for a servant.
An extremely mild affinity for wood, earth, and water, and even that was a cluttered-up wreckage with fluctuating aspects of soul, mind, and flesh magic trying to vie for dominance. 
Not to mention, the Ichoric chamber in his heart was as scraggy as a cracked eggshell.
He had the lowest farmhand servant's capability through and through, with no actual path or technique of cultivation in the clan's archives that he could follow. The sole redeeming quality he had was the tethered totemic soul—as recently identified by the Grand Shamanka, he shared with Agwyn. 
Even acknowledging that, he would at most reach low earth if he lived long enough. Though, if he ever siphoned in more manna through the link than his body could handle, he would explode like a fish's bladder.
That was what worried Thundham the most on that fated night three cycles ago, when he had just finished scrying Elrhain's potential with the help of the shamans of the rites. 
The storm of negative thoughts scoured his soul like the vengeance of an unjustly felled foe, and he had almost carried out the worst mistake of his life.
What would his granddaughter do with a fated who had a lifespan one-tenth of hers? Who would peak in prowess weaker than her weakest of fingers?
Those who fate tethers together never survive long after their fated dies; this was a fact written in stone in Uorys Diosca with the Yuriel founder as the greatest example. The man, a powerhouse far above sky with a lifespan spanning thousands of cycles, had died of grief not seven days after his sky realmer wife had passed away of old age. Even if his granddaughter was a genius that would make the current Yuriel Impelakty green in envy, this would still be her destiny. 
The disc had blessed her a high affinity in all the nature's elements, with innate manna-born crests covering her body, a spirit's ichoric chamber, a marrow core harder than the hardest metal known to Dhionne, and the flesh of a Faediaga. Finally, the tethered totemic soul far more symmetrical than her fated's with deeper nodes, more elegant lattice and well-aligned frames.
Indeed, her Totem in the future would be anything but ordinary with such a magnificent set of roots. The soil was simply too fertile for a harvest to fail, even if she tried.
Although she was not a supreme talent in any of her roots, she only had a marginally less breakthrough possibility. A supreme was all but assured of breaking through the last circle and were the envy of all. But she, his beloved granddaughter, had an assemblage of roots many times more flexible than even a supreme's. 
In fact, in most cases, a supreme talent would only have the highest quality in only of their cultivation roots. In contrast, Agwyn had more roots than the whole clan could poke a stick at.
With Earthloch's resources, her breakthrough beyond the sky was all but assured.
So, if she, the clan's hope and future, passed away of grief like the Yuriel founder, would his son and Cyra have to risk their lives again to sire another inheritor? When they almost lost both mother and child this time? Could Bromwyn even pass the position of Siorrakt to Stormfelt's—Thundham's elder brother's grandchild?
No! He would never allow it. Not because he scorned his nephew and grandnephew or his deceased brother and sister-in-law. He loved them both as a family should. Not to mention, that child was a bona fide supreme.
It was because that child had the blood of the royalty of a foreign, hostile disc. The child's mother was a war prisoner of war whom his nephew released in the blind name of love. He had to give up achievements and concede war spoils of the last disc war to stop the other high nobles from forcefully executing the father and child.
In nobility terms, that was the same as begging and kneeling. 
An enemy's royal blood having legitimacy on Uorys Diosca? 
The clans and dominions of the other seventeen Juyakts, eleven Eyrshakts, four Siorrakts, two Diuvakts, and the Impelakt would see the Earthlochs razed before that happened. 
So, if Agwyn died in the future before Thundham himself perished of old age, then their clan would be without a direct successor.
He had virtually given up hope that day. Nearly ordered Elrhain to be bounded into a necromantic vessel, transmuted into a small living bead by the Naeman Witches who lived in the boundary of disc and void.
Agwyn would never meet her fated face to face. She might never love another, but one didn't require love to sire children. 
Responsibility was sufficient for that.
Better still, she would not fall to suicide or an untimely death either. Since her fated would live right by her side as a ghoulish accessory. 
It had been merely a few hours since the babes were born, and the boy's father and mother had not yet laid their eyes on him. 
Thundham would frame it as a tragedy like so many others in the clan. The babe was weak, ill, and eventually died uncrying, unbreathing.
Agwyn would never find out either. She would live on with an eternal ache in her heart, not knowing why she woke up every night to weep her soul out. 
But she would live, and that was enough.
Not even her parents would inform her. Why should they when the result was the girl most certainly ending her own life?
No, he alone would atone for the sin. He would ennoble a Pailakty to the lovely Eluned and brave Dofnald in penitence. Then he would sacrifice his very life to the Tainted Disc-eater, Haar'zhist the Frigid Wormgod down below, with an eternity to suffer in the being’s infinite poisonous stomach. 
Thundham's fears had spiralled out of control, the darkness in his head feeding the devil's mirth.
It was then that the Grand Shamanka, another of the sky realmers of his clan, and his maternal aunt by blood—even though he was older by age, persuaded him to "Cross the cavern when they got there."
He relented no less than an hour of spittle flying, one clash of sword and staff, and a psychological breakdown later.
And now, he thanked the disc and all the spirits that he did.
His granddaughter was everything her talent promised. Barely three cycles now, yet already halfway to earthen with her nodes filling up almost as if the disc was pushing manna into them.
Elrhain, the lad, was… strange. 
His natural progress in cultivation was just as he had predicted. He merely had forty-one specks ignited; even with all the superior elixirs he gobbled up each meal like a fish-gremlin with an unceasing appetite.
His wisdom, on the other hand, was unorthodox, to say the least. Brilliant if Thundham was to praise it.
Glints of revelation in his daily talks with a lisping Agwyn, his commentaries on the nature of the world, and reactions to everyday mundane details of the clan. 
How he rebuked Bromwyn's mistakes as a chieftain when they discussed clan matters during their suppers, even though anybody else would believe Bromwyn right.
It was as if he regarded the world around him from a bird's perspective. Noticing obvious details they had all been missing for hundreds, no, thousands of cycles. 
Others would mock him a loon, mad in the head. Speaking in strange made-up tongues and conversing with imagined companions. Finding faults when there were none and stuttering long-sounding fake words to impress the adults.
Thundham would not.
Because in his childhood, he was the same!
Now, all those who derided him looked on in reverence, as the nine great lakes of the hundreds he dug up with but a few trusted companions sprouted spirits of their own and fed the clan with thousands of gheist manna-cores and spirit spawn ichors every cycle.
Thundham was convinced in his heart. His grandson-in-law was a thinker! Just like him, and like the Star-seers of yore. Their forefathers have blessed him with sagely wisdom. Nothing like those fake scholars of the Yuriels who had not the eyes to understand the truth of the world.
So, what if his talent was worse? They were the Earthlochs! The strongest Siorrakt, the greatest noble after the Yuriels!
They had more talents in brawn than they needed. But thinkers, they had so pitifully few.
If Elrhain had no skill to fight or cultivate, they would throw more Elixirs at him.
If even that was not adequate, it only meant they threw too few elixirs. History has shown that dhionne could break through beyond the sky with nothing but wealth, and the Earthlochs had the wealth to replicate that feat.
He was the Grand Elder, his son was the Siorrakt, his daughter-in-law a great Faediaga Eldress. They had the right and authority to use the clan treasury however they pleased. 
Not to mention the Grand Shamanka, who had been complaining incessantly about how she could not meet the two children because of her duties.
Who else had the qualifications to oppose his decision? Who would dare directly challenge him for explanations?
Thundham would applaud them first before crushing them into bone gruel.
Thus, he answered not Elder Sonora's unworded questions. 'that spineless coward. Only bringing shame to his house name.'
Thundham just listened. Listened and remembered each utterance.
He was aged and weary, but hardened. Sometimes senile, coming to hasty conclusions. But he was also patient and learned not to feed the provocateurs.
Alas, not everyone had his restraint.
"You insult the Siorrakt while sitting right beside the Grand Elder. Have you people no shame?" A woman seated on the right, the tallest person in the clearing, snarled with bared fangs.
"The Grand Elder himself bestowed upon us the responsibility of guiding the clan and the Siorrakt. It is our holy task to point out all his mistakes." Replied Elder Sonora with a mocking grin. "But an unwed woman like you have no way of understanding the gravity of our obligations towards clan and family, nor the proper manner to speak to your betters, Onthoakt Gairmsnarl. You should learn some from Onthoakt Ursan if he is even willing to teach you."
The Dhionnes on the left agreed with him and hurled all kinds of fancy insults with their unbridled laughter. Ursan was thumping his trunk and rejecting Sonora's well-willed suggestion with regret.
'Heh, manners.' Thundham found it somewhat ironic.
The taller woman was about to stand up in a rage when a shorter, unassuming-looking man stopped her with one of his four arms.
"And a Yuriel dog like you would know manners and obligations to our clan?" He spat, looking Elder Sonora up and down.
"You wear the robes of the Impelakty, you paint totems in their practice on your body, and you wed, no, sell your daughter out for a price of manna-core like a Naeman trader, against long-standing clan traditions. Even the lowest farmhand servant of Earthloch has higher rights to sit here than a renegade like you."
"Surely you jest, Lord Sabhalan. I am simply doing my duty by rectifying our outdated traditions and bringing a much-needed progressive change to the ways of Earthloch. A wise man knows that stubbornly clinging onto unneeded customs is the true obstacle that stops meaningful progress. The scholars of the Impelakty have proven this time and time again, and yet you, as a Pailakt, still cannot grasp that meaning." Elder Sonora closed his eyes and slowly shook his head left and right as if he had never seen anything more tragic.
Pailakt Sabhalan laughed, raising all four of his arms. "Hear this, my good brothers and sisters. Elder Sonora here declares that he is too embarrassed to show the practices of our ancestors openly. If we let this renegade be more sacrilegious, what next will he say? That womenfolks have no rights to a title, or to be warriors, and should remain behind walls, bearing children and obeying their husbands? He preaches Yuriel tradition right to our faces, on this sacred ceremony of our Earthloch Princess!"
That won a solid round of cheers and salutes from the Dhionnes on the right. 
Even Thundham couldn't help acknowledging that point. Elder Sonora's disdain towards womenfolk could not affect the sentiments of the clan right now. Yet he knew that many generations ago, the Yuriels too were also not like they are today.
Of course, he never showed a shred of his inner thoughts outwards. Just staring at the altar expressionlessly. He and the Grand Shamanka had planted it on the highest surface of the Loch Sagathan Temple earlier that day, with only the Starloch spire floating above.
Elder Sonora, on the other hand, was the opposite of silent. 
His snort resounded like an avalanche, and the derisive sneer on his face warped into a furious scowl as he snarled, "Do not twist my words, Cave savage! I merely speak of discarding the old and bringing in the new! Yet I fear concepts like these will sound like Hymns of yore to one such uneducated as you."
"Aha, Cave savage he says. Do you hear that, my brothers and sisters of Earthloch, how he scorns me by my ancestry and not by my deeds! Do you see him repressing me with his self-entitled Impelakty rights?" Palaikt Sabhalan shot back, hoisting the skull full of aged fruit pulp in Elder Sonora's direction.
This time, the Dhionnes sitting on the left were the ones who raised their fists and wings in complaints.
And so it continued, on and on. Like children, fighting in the mud pits over who gets to keep the shiniest rock.
Thundham thought it might have been the long wait that agitated these monkey brains. Or the hunger, as the feast could not be served before the blessing. Not to mention the blessing itself, which would span hours depending on the number of spirits that showed. Although,
"Hmm?" Thundham grunted, and everyone else quietened.
He shifted his position slightly as he glanced at the many waterfalls pouring out of the Loch Sagathan Temple.
A slight ripple and a rush of blue.
The moons aligned on the apex as the midnight stars flickered brightly.
In that small junction, the last moon, signalling the end of spring and the start of the ritual, had started to unveil itself.
Beneath the silvery moonlight, the Grand Shamanka stood up from her kneeling position in front of the stone stairs of the temple. The metal rings on her staff echoed with a serene chime.
"It is time." Said her oriole voice as it drifted out like the spring breeze in all corners of Lochuir. 
A storm of water and green had materialized right beside the Grand Shamanka, revealing the final remaining sky realmer of Earthloch, the happy-go-lucky daughter-in-law Cyra.
Alongside whom stood a composed Dofnald.
And perched on Cyra and Dofnald's arms were the two befuddled toddlers who were the stars of the show.




Chapter 18 - Young and Old 

Agwyn was so happy today she couldn’t stop giggling. She was happy the day before. But today, she was happier times ten.
In fact, this had been the happiest day in both her lives.
“Blasted Slug woman!” Elrhain cursed out while grabbing onto his father’s robes in a vice grip. His angry, mesmerizing voice forced her to giggle again. The shocked faces of Cyra, Dofnald, and the pretty older sister standing there holding a staff made her giggle even louder.
Perhaps it was the adrenaline high from that heck of a roller coaster ride, as she was having trouble controlling her emotions.
But that was fine. 
She learnt that bottling up her explosive, adult feelings in this tiny toddler’s body would only cause her pain. Both physical and psychological.
Insomnia was the least bad, the worst case being that time she practically had a mental breakdown one day, thinking she had multiple personalities clashing in her psyche.
So, she learned to let loose. Let her petite body, with its itty-bitty biology, do its work. Inside her soul, far removed from the control of her hormones and neuroreceptors, she still had the judgement and values of an adult human individual. 
But on the surface, she wanted and needed to live a joyous life as a 3-cycle old Dhionne who suckled on her thumb and cried ‘Owie’ when someone pinched her puffy cheeks.
Or how else could she speak such cheesy pick-up lines to Elrhain so confidently? 
The adult Agwyn was cold, selfish, spiteful and sceptical. She would rather swallow a swordfish live on TeleNet wearing a ballet tutu than loudly proclaim her feelings like that. 
Unless she was dead drunk or on drugs, of course. 
But then again, gene-mods made detoxifying them almost effortless, and she hated virtual reality, the only place where she was able to suppress the mods without harm.
On the other hand, little Gwyn didn’t hate VR, and adorable Annie was high on happy hormones most of the time. She would do with glee what Agwyn could not. Little Rhain, her charming prince Ellie, could accept the love that the grumpy Elrhain would run away from too.
In the end, they proved her right. Her passion had triumphed! 
Her victory was so decisive that there will be no drama after he was her’s now. The only feelings they develop will all be positive.
「Stop giggling, you old hag! You have an annoying lisp for Christ’s sake」
‘Okay, maybe not all of them.’
Agwyn shut her mouth. But she loved how he switched to Earth Common when he scolded her. So thoughtful, even when angry.
Elrhain rarely got angry in his past life. He most definitely let his inner child and his toddler body control at least some of his actions.
「Ellie, start enjoying things like this more. After all, we are in a fantasy world now!」
Elrhain’s waspish complaints, his lovable lectures, his yearning for the unknown yet fear of danger. Everything, the old him and the new him, was endearing to the extreme. 
‘I want to hug him.’
Agwyn stopped there and contemplated the other possibilities. The infinite world that lay beyond hugs!
‘And kiss him, and more than kiss him, and go on dates with him! Ahhh, why can’t we grow up faster?!’
She hid her blushing face with her palms as her mommy let her down on the ground. The pretty older sister said something with an amused tone, but she didn’t pay heed.
To her, the daydreams were more important.
‘But wait! If I don’t listen, would they cancel our e-e-engagement?!’
The thought was like cold water being dumped on her steaming head. From feeling cracked electrifying high, her rational soul clicked back into her immature body.
“Wait!” She shouted and hurriedly raised up a hand, “Can you wepeat that?”
However, before the pretty older sister could, Elrhain pointed at her mother and declared, “See? You made her dumb. I think she banged her head on something when you zoomed us out of there.”
“No way?!” Cyra started. She then quickly checked Agwyn over for any signs of injuries. Sighing in relief when she found none, she shot a victorious look towards the little boy.
“My aqua-vines will cushion any impact. You should trust mommy more, okay?” Cyra placed a finger on her cheeks, “But then again, Rhain, I like you when you’re uncute too!”
Dofnald had to stop Elrhain from shouting more expletives. 
And Agwyn had to stop herself from shouting, ‘I know, right?’
But she pulled herself back to the matter at hand and skipped to the pretty sister. The stone floor clip-clopped like pebbles under her bone padded boots. 
“Um, I’m sowwy for not listening. I was thinking things.”
The other party beamed like a flower, “All is well, my child.”
“What’s your name? I’m Annie. But my mommy calls me Gwyn, and gwandpa calls me Agwyn! You can call me Gwyn or Agwyn, but not Annie.”
“What wonderful names, though I don’t know what the ‘Annie’ means.” The pretty older sister chortled, her voice clear like a wind-chime. “I’m Lilian Earthloch Sonora, your parents and gwandpa call me the Grand Shamanka, but you can call me Auntie Lilian. And I will call you Gwyn.”
“Ou, I’ve heard about you!” Agwyn exclaimed.
Her mother was always full of praise for the Grand Shamanka’s wisdom. She called her the ‘smartest Dhionne on our disc’. The accuracy of that sentence was debatable. But one thing was for sure,
In the Earthloch Siorrakty, she was at least one of the smartest.
When Elrhain first learned of the Grand Shamanka, he demanded Agwyn’s father take him to her.
His nagging became virtually unbearable when he learned that the Grand Shamanka’s acolytes had full access to the clan archives. Her authority in that regard was even higher than the Archive keepers.
Elrhain’s excitement to meet her was evident from his reaction right now.
“… You’re the real Grand Shamanka?” His eyes went wide, and his fingers started fidgeting. The want for knowledge popped up anew in his being.
“Rhain, be respectful.”
“Hey, I was talking to you!”
Dofnald and Cyra called out to him, but Elrhain utterly disregarded them.
He looked like he wanted to ask the Grand Shamanka a million questions. However,
‘Oops! He’s shy again,’ Agwyn looked Lilian up and down, ‘He was especially bad with pretty ladies like her.’
It would be a lie to say she wasn’t envious. But only of Lilian’s alluring appearance. It’s like she was ripped straight out of the nun section of a playLad magazine. Slender, elegant, yet curvy like a wave and plump like a pink cloud of steam.
‘And that’s his type,’ Agwyn mused. Then she corrected herself, ‘was his type.’
It was the same for her.
The revealing, skin thin tribal shawls made Lillian look awfully tempting, like a plump cherry ripe for the plucking. But her beauty was unholy and forbidden, as if the sin to pluck her belonged only to god.
If this was Agwyn fifty years before she died, she would have doubtlessly asked Lilian out for a date. 
And if it was twenty years before her passing? She would have felt jealous, not envious.
“Yes, I am real, and I’ve heard many curious tales about the things you do, such as now when you questioned the validity of my existence, Elrhain Earthloch Siaglas. Your guardians call you Rhain, and Gwyn calls you Ellie. What should I call you?” Lilian asked Elrhain.
“… Rhain is fine.” He responded back like a robot. But Agwyn could sense him calming down through their linked soul.
‘Was it because of the joke Auntie Lilian made? Or was she being serious?’
Agwyn couldn’t be sure. This was, after all, a world of magic.
Lilian ran her eyes over the two of them with an amused grin.
“To reiterate what I’ve said before, chieftainess, pass the Earthloch Vessel over to Gwyn. Reanakt Siaglas, please do the same for the Earthloch sceptre.”
Cyra stopped trying to get Elrhain’s attention and immediately took out a… jar? from somewhere. Likewise, Dofnald handed his son a… stick.
Agwyn looked at the object she now hugged in confusion.
Elrhain voiced her queries for her, “You call these a vessel and a sceptre?”
“Indeed,” Lilian nodded. “The Epochs have made them decrepit, and they were not always called Earthloch. But their functions remain unchanged.”
“And what would that be?” 
The Grand Shamanka’s whole demeanour changed, as if she was waiting for that question. Agwyn could sense the wind around them stilling and even the two adults perking up straight.
Lilian gestured with her empty hands towards the steps of the temple that reach the clouds. With her other hand, she slammed the staff on the stone platform.
The end of the staff had struck right in the middle of an engraved runic circle, which now shimmered to life under their feet.
As Lilian offered a prayer in an unknown tongue, the circle beneath rotated and expanded.
A gale blew with the silence long gone, and the clouds in the sky vanished as if a giant hand had swiped them away. They then started drifting back in again, struggling against the giant for their rightful freedom.
Agwyn could hear the murmurs coming from the direction of Lochuir rise in volume. The countless Dhionne who must have been watching repeated Lilian’s prayer in a solemn chorus.
The voices mixed into a raging tsunami, and it collapsed onto the place where they stood.

ᛟᚺ ᚷᚱᛖᚨᛏ ᛋᚨᚷᚨᛏᚺᚨᚾ, ᛏᚺᛖ ᛋᛚᛖᛖᛈᛁᚾᚷ ᛋᛈᛁᚱᛁᛏ ᛟᚠ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛋᛏᚨᚱᛚᛟᚲᚺ ᛚᚨᚴᛖ,
ᛒᛚᛖᛋᛋ ᛒᛖ ᛏᛟ ᛟᚢᚱ ᚺᛖᛁᚱ, ᛟᚢᚱ ᚺᛖᛁᚱᛖᛋᛋ, ᚨᚾᛞ ᚹᚨᚴᛖ ᛏᛟ ᛈᛖᚱᚠᛟᚱᛗ,

But she felt neither the windstorm nor the shock wave.
Cyra and Dofnald stood before them, their expressions solemn.
Her mother’s lips were moving as she gently caressed Agwyn’s hair. No sound came through, but the voice reached her.
“Gwyn, Rhain. This is it.” Cyra’s eyes turned glossy with tears, “You will write the opening verse for the next song of our clan’s epic hymns. You will take the first steps for the next generations to come.”
The nervousness slowly crept into Agwyn’s heart. She didn’t even know what she was expected to do.
“Don’t fret, my daughter. Mommy will establish a tie of manna with you, and so will Lord Siaglas with Rhain.” Cyra smiled, kissing Agwyn’s forehead. She then bit her own fingers and smeared the blood on Agwyn’s robes.
Eluned’s workmanship lit up in a glow of Azure light, Azhrite. A gloomy blue signifying the end, and a cheerful indigo telling tales of a new beginning.
“There, done. Now all you two have to do is walk the steps all the way up. When you arrive at the summit, the ancestors will teach you the rest.”
Agwyn saw Dofnald pat Elrhain from the corner of her eyes. The little fellow looked more relaxed than she was.
‘He was always into stuff like this, bizarre rituals and conspiracy theories.’ Agwyn smiled at the memories.
She was more into visiting unknown places, like the underground world below, rather than staying in one place and watching the unknown occur. 
‘I guess we both will have our share of fun today.’
Elrhain glanced towards her, an invitation for a dance in his eyes.
Agwyn obliged.
Hugging the jar to her body with her chubby hands, she followed Elrhain ahead. But right before she stepped on the stairs, Agwyn looked back towards her mother.
Cyra had her hands clapped in front of her breasts in prayer and stood facing East. Her eyes were sealed shut, not even quivering. 
Dofnald stood a few meters away, doing the same. He faced West, face to face with Cyra.
The Grand Shamanka stood in the middle, a few paces to the south, facing the children’s direction. 
Only she had her eyes opened, which crossed with Agwyn’s own.
Lilian slightly nodded, then raised her staff high up, renewing her mystical chant.

ᛗᚨᚤ ᚤᛟᚢ ᚺᛖᚨᚱ ᛏᚺᛖᛁᚱ ᚡᛟᛁᚲᛖ ᚲᚨᛚᛚᛁᚾᚷ, ᚹᛁᛏᚺ ᛖᚡᛖᚱᚤ ᛖᚱᚨ’ᛋ ᛋᛏᛖᛈᛋ,
ᛒᛚᛖᛋᛋ ᛒᛖ ᛟᚢᚱ ᚲᛚᚨᚾ, ᚹᛁᛏᚺ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛋᛈᛁᚱᛁᛏᛋ ᛋᛁᚾᚷ ᛁᚾ ᛋᛏᛟᚱᛗ.

The blue lights from their parents turned into a braided net, tying with Lilian’s silver aura as it tethered to Agwyn’s and Elrhain’s robes. There was no discomfort, only a refreshing warmth.
The staff in Lilian’s hand shone bright, and a ray of aurora coloured bright like the stars shot deep into the midnight sky. It was hypnotizing. Both the hymn and the light. Agwyn wanted to continue looking at it forever, to try and sing a few lines too. But,
「Annie, shall we do our part?」, Elrhain whispered. The boy was having trouble carrying the long sceptre yet did so with joy anyway.
「With pleasure.」 Agwyn replied, 「And Ellie?」
「Yes?」
「At sunrise, the world will be ours.」
Elrhain laughed. An aspiration they could not fulfil in their past lives, they would do it in this. Not of world domination, but untainted happiness for cycles to come.
Agwyn hopped onto the step after her wish had been voiced, and Elrhain skipped along at the same time too.
Above them,
The eyes in the midnight sky opened.






Chapter 19 - Night of Spirits

Auras placid, bodies of blue water, and irises that shimmered like the sparkling seas.
Agwyn’s curious eyes crossed with the gazes of the hundreds of translucent beings of magic that emerged in the night sky.
Spirits!
Their ethereal bodies flowed with the aurora above in grace and mystery. They glided the skies as one with the tides of light in serene peace and purpose, spiralling the Loch Sagathan Temple.
Agwyn looked down towards Lochuir below, again at the lush forests in the mountains around.
The spirits were everywhere.
Up in the clouds and down under the lakes. From the rich valleys and jungles to the waters of the Aenraad river that spiralled for hundreds of miles south. 
Again, with each stride she took, their numbers increased. 
They were akin to a spectral army from a realm unknown. Yet even with such great numbers, Agwyn knew they meant no harm. This was a give and take, an exchange of blessing. It was just like,
「…the vision in the murals.」, Elrhain said with a squeak. The little boy with his short arms carried the staff sideways, with one end dragging on the steps below.
Clink, Clank.
Every time they went up a tread, it would hit the stairs like a xylophone, raising a hollow sound with no tune or flow. Yet, the constant rhythm harmonized with Lilian’s echoing hymns without fault.

ᛟᚺ ᚷᚱᛖᚨᛏ ᛚᚨᚴᛖᛋ ᛟᚠ ᛖᚨᚱᛏᚺᛚᛟᚲᚺ, ᚨᚾᛞ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛋᛈᛁᚱᛁᛏᛋ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛋᚹᛁᛗ ᚹᛁᛏᚺᛁᚾ,
ᛒᛚᛖᛋᛋ ᛒᛖ ᛏᛟ ᛏᚺᛖᛖ, ᚨᚾᛞ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛗᚨᚾᚾᚨ ᚠᛚᛟᛟᛞᛋ ᚷᛟᛟᛞ ᚨᚾᛞ ᛒᚱᚨᚡᛖ,

「Did you see the Angels too?」 Agwyn asked, her eyes unconsciously revealing a hint of fear. But when Elrhain peered towards her, she swiftly averted her gaze.
Looking the other way, she lent her ear to the song, and again her mind drifted. She understood the meaning, and she didn’t at the same time. Why was that?
「Yeah, if the spirits are real, then maybe Angels too will pop up one day. If so, then this reincarnation has one hell of a main quest. However,」
Elrhain clicked his tongue, re-adjusting the staff with his elbow pits and forearms,
「Don’t let those apocalyptic visions bother you. Whatever they were, we can figure out the meaning later. For now, ugh, how many steps are there to this temple anyway?」
The grin returned to Agwyn’s face. She looked up at the peak that pierced the sky.
「I think one thousand.」
「What? Why?」
「One spirit for one lake, and Earthloch has a hundred thousand, remember?」
Elrhain’s face broke down in despair. He halted his legs and almost tumbled on the risers.
He then glared at the stairs above as if they had plagiarized his research work. Because that’s the only time Agwyn had ever seen him make such a face.
A few seconds went by, but the boy remained still. Then suddenly, Elrhain started to wiggle his knees and shoulders.
「Ellie?」
「Have you noticed? We’re not tired at all.」
Agwyn tilted her head, then concentrated within. True to Elrhain’s words, The fatigue and exhaustion that should obviously be there with their toddler bodies climbing steep steps were completely missing.
She angled her head around to take in the distance they had already scaled.
「We must’ve at least climbed a hundred steps by now, right?」
Elrhain nodded.
「Then we are already a tenth of the way there. So, fifty more minutes!」 Agwyn cheered, 「This will be over before we know it.」
Elrhain whined but moved his legs nonetheless.

ᛗᚨᚤ ᛏᚺᛖ ᚨᚾᚷᛖᛚᛋ ᛞᛁᛖ ᛟᚾ ᚤᛟᚢᚱ ᚹᚨᛏᛖᚱᛋ, ᚹᛁᛏᚺ ᚡᛁᚲᛏᛟᚱᚤ ᛏᛟ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛒᚱᛁᛗ,
ᛒᛚᛖᛋᛋ ᛒᛖ ᚢᛟᚱᛁᛋ, ᛟᚢᚱ ᛋᛟᚾᚷᛋ ᚨᚾᛞ ᚡᛟᛁᚲᛖ ᛒᛖ ᛏᚺᛖᛁᚱ ᚷᚱᚨᚡᛖᛋ.


And so they climbed, step after step, as the minutes continued to mercilessly pass.
Around the 500th, Elrhain stopped again. The little boy was gawking at Agwyn with unwavering focus.
「W-What?」 She asked meekly, a blush creeping onto her cheeks.
Elrhain answered a breath later.
「You are glowing so brightly.」
「Thank you- Wait.」 Agwyn quickly looked down at her body and saw a neon light. She lifted the edge of her robes after putting down the jar and twirled. She then angled her head back to peek at her lumber curve and waistline.
…it was like someone dressed her up as Kowloon walled city.
「Huh?」 
Her underarms and sole of her feet too. Even the leafy hair that drifted on the wind.
「Watch out!」, Elrhain screamed without warning and yanked her back by the shoulder. She jerked her head around to see what had spooked him.
Her eyes met a spirit’s, hovering a few feet away. 
「Huh?」
It was twice as tall as her and watery all over. 
And those eyes… reminded her of her mother’s…of her past life’s. 
She saw love there. Something she failed to notice back then, while it mattered.
「It’s okay, Ellie. I don’t think she means any harm.」
The boy looked wary but let go of her after warning her to be careful. He then picked up the staff that had fallen down.
Was it luck that it didn’t plummet five hundred steps below? Nevertheless, the thought pleased her.
That he was willing to forsake this lengthy ritual for her sake.
The spirit gurgled. Its call mixed with the wind and created a song of power.
It extended a hand with its palm open, and an orb of blue light a few inches across materialized. 
With a push from the spirit, it floated towards Agwyn without any malevolence. She stared at it in fascination, guessing what it could be.
Until she didn’t, when the orb entered her forehead.
With a tilt of its head, the spirit broke apart into a spray of mist. Not even explaining its purpose or saying goodbye. 
Agwyn stood there, letting the moisture ruffle her hair, as the mist from the spirit extended way up high to meet back with the aurora in the heavens.
Elrhain checked her over for five long minutes, from body heat, bruises to signs of pain.
In the end, he concluded that it wasn’t anything harmful—for now, other than her glow remaining as bright.
The light simply condensed, not extending as much as before, as it contoured her tiny frame now.
They put the curious interlude behind them and tiptoed on the next tread.
When ten more spirits materialized, with many more studying them, her, from a distance.

ᛗᚨᚤ ᛟᚢᚱ ᚲᚺᛁᛚᛞᚱᛖᚾ ᛒᛖ ᛋᛏᚱᛟᚾᚷ, ᚹᛁᛏᚺ ᚾᛟᚾᛖ ᛁᚾ ᛞᛖᚨᛏᚺᛋ ᛗᛖᚱᚲᚤ,
ᛟᚺ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛗᛟᚢᚾᛏᚨᛁᚾᛋ ᛟᚠ ᚤᛟᚱᛖ, ᛗᚨᚤ ᚤᛟᚢᚱ ᛚᛖᚨᚡᛖᛋ ᛒᛖ ᛈᛚᛖᚾᛏᚤ,

The number of orbs Agwyn received increased with every bit of distance they passed. The colours or contents would vary depending on the gifter too.
Some were just light like the first, while others had swirling images within. Ultimately, they all melted into Agwyn’s body.
Some into the limbs, some to her chest.
The glow condensed even further, and the colours sometimes shifted like a moving gradient sheen.
Yet this magical experience didn’t give her any joy.
「Why don’t they give you any?」
Agwyn grumbled with a mean pout. The flickering lights of the stars and aurora accentuated the displeasure on her face.
「Who knows? Maybe because you are the clan’s princess?」
Agwyn pouted even harder with a squirrel-like sound.
「Come on, you don’t have to be angry for me.」
「I’m not!」
「You are.」
Elrhain grinned. Then moved his eyes towards the sky.
A few minutes ago, it had drizzled. Now, it poured. The clouds had successfully fought their way back.
Glistening drops fell through the aurora from the heavens, echoing the rainbow light in the midnight’s dark. As the wind took on speed, it carried the raindrops from the valley into far beyond.
The only place it didn’t reach was the step Agwyn and Elrhain stood on. A soft cloud-like field created by the tether with the three below protected them like a guardian’s embrace.
It didn’t stop the sound of rain or the flow of the wind. It simply made it calmer, like she was sitting on a bed by the window, watching the stormy night outside.
Agwyn was enjoying this feeling until the spirits ruined her mood.
「We still have a hundred steps to go, and there are so many spirits left. You won’t explode or anything, right?」 Elrhain exclaimed, and Agwyn hmph’ed.
The boy awkwardly scratched his head,「Perhaps a few will choose me.」
Agwyn wasn’t convinced. Until now, there had been all sorts of creatures, both alien and familiar, that had appeared. They might look like trees on the land, beasts of the desert, or fire breathing drakes from myths, but all of them felt like they belonged to the water.
Regardless of their eyes of metal or bodies of stone, at their core, in their bloodstreams, and by their soul, there was water first and everything else second. 
That’s what Agwyn learnt after receiving so many of their gifts. But in her heart, these gifts were more like forceful obligations.
Other than the first, none gave her anything without a want in return. Alas, such was the world, both this one and the past.
That is precisely why the spirits simply found Elrhain unworthy. They judged him based on their own selfish criteria and concluded he was of no value. That he could not offer them anything worthwhile in return for their gifts.
They whispered in her ears, 
Why walk with him? Why love him? His blood flows slow, his lattice so crooked, and his manna so weak.
‘This is a blessing.’ She reflected, ‘Of both ways. A boon for the clan, and the spirits, they mean no harm. So, I shouldn’t find it unfair. Yet,’
Elrhain guessed a part of it right. She was angry for him.
Just not for the reason he guessed.

ᛏᚺᛖ ᚲᚨᚡᛖᛋ ᛟᚠ ᛖᚨᚱᛏᚺᛚᛟᚲᚺ, ᛞᛟ ᛒᛚᛖᛋᛋ ᚢᛋ ᚹᛁᛏᚺ ᛏᚺᚤ ᛋᛏᛟᚾᛖᛋ,
ᚹᚨᚱᚱᛁᛟᚱᛋ ᛟᚾ ᛞᚢᛏᚤ, ᛚᛖᛏ ᚤᛟᚢᚱ ᛗᛁᚷᚺᛏ ᚨᚾᛞ ᛗᚨᚾᚾᚨ, ᛒᛖ ᛟᚢᚱ ᛒᛟᚢᚾᛏᚤ

The last ten treads, the final few steps. The clouds skimmed past their skin like swaying feathers. The white spirals painted a picture of how helpless dhionnes were in this savage world, with their uncaring swirls.
It was as though Agwyn now stood in the eye of a typhoon from up in space. Safe and sound, yet she knew of the dangers looming beyond the white walls.
The thunder struck, and the gale shifted sides. One moment, the burnt taste of plasma was there; the next, her humid breath washed it away.
The black spire up above rotated gently, without a care in the world. Looming like an obelisk. Drab, unshining, and apathetic.
Yet Agwyn sensed a call, from the spire and from the stars.
It told her how it missed its old friends, the jar and the staff, and how it felt happy to see them again. 
A gentle heart under its cold front. Like the dear mother of her first life, showing no joy at her deeds and achievements. Yet, in places Agwyn could not see, she would wear a proud smile.
The spirits came and went, their actions unchanged. Still, not all were as obstinate as the majority.
Some just hid as they sent her the blessing. Like shy little girls too flustered to give the chocolate they made for valentine’s day to the boy they admired.
They put it in the boy’s locker without even a name, running away for a sleepless night.
The bold ones, like the dragon in front of her, demanded she accepts the gift and eats it first before all others.
Because these orbs weren’t just cakes, they were legacies.
‘Like those tacky, fortuitous encounters? Is that even a word?’
Agwyn giggled, her hands furiously petting the long creature of cuddly fur. 
It was hard work, as she was hugging an oversized jar too. The old, broken thing had no handles or places to grab, and some kind of magical barrier blocked its mouth smooth.
But where there was a will, there was a way to fluff cute things.
「Annie, I don’t think this is a dragon.」, Elrhain said. Suspicion painted his voice.
「Don’t be ridiculous. It has the tails of a fish, the neck of a snake, the belly of a clam, the claws of an eagle, the paws of a tiger, the ears of a cow, the eyes of a demon, the beard of a goat and the horns of a stag. It’s a dragon!」
「And the fur of a cat, and the face of a fox. Its fishtail looks like two fox tails glued together to make a heart shape. Besides, how exactly do you know what a tiger’s paw or demon’s eye looks like? 」
「Potato po-tah-to. It’s okay if it’s cute. Do you want to pet it too?」 
「C-Can I?」
He could, as the cat-fox-dragon looked twice as content with four chubby arms stroking it. 
This was only one reason Agwyn liked it, however. 
Until now, the fox dragon was the sole spirit who hadn’t derided Elrhain at sight and regarded the boy thoughtfully before sending an orb her way. It was likewise the first to let her touch, and the first who cut in line, pushing back the other eager queue-ers. 
Though the rest didn’t oppose it, merely moving back in dismay.
A hard choisse, misssy, to have two good sseedlingss, mrrrawl. I will let ᛋᛋᛋᚺᛖᚱᚠᚨᚢᚾ have the other whelp, then. Ahhh yesss yip, there, that iss the sspot, it said, purring like a cat and hissing like a snake.
‘Now, who is this spirit with the unutterable name, and when will it show up?’
The spirits now seemed to outnumber the stars in the sky. Their glow leaving a tail-light as they swanned in the clouds.
Watching, waiting, hoping.
Their gift of orbs flew to her like fireflies. With such vast numbers, they shone like a beacon on this stormy night.
Agwyn now reckoned she could be seen from a thousand kilometres away. If not her, then at least the light show.
She took another step forward as the cat-fox-dragon puffed away, while the spirits remaining became even more frantic.
The fireflies bloomed like rockets, and she was their destination.
Agwyn felt like she was the one doing them a favour and not the other way around.

ᛚᛖᛏ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛋᛈᛁᚱᛁᛏᛋ ᛚᛁᚡᛖ ᛁᚾ ᚺᚨᚱᛗᛟᚾᚤ, ᛁᚾ ᛏᚺᛁᛋ ᛖᛩᚢᚨᛚ ᛏᚱᚨᛞᛖ,
ᛞᚺᛁᛟᚾᚾᛖ ᚨᚾᛞ ᚠᚨᛖᛞᛁᚨᚷᚨ, ᛟᚾ ᚢᛟᚱᚤᛋ ᛞᛁᛋᚲᛋ ᛚᛟᚡᛁᚾᚷ ᛖᛗᛒᚱᚨᚲᛖ,

Only one step remained. Barely a foot away to reach the top, yet move, they could not. In front of them was the first and final roadblock to the climb.
Not an interlude like the dragon and other spirits, this one far eerier. Like an unexpected horror story on a rainy night.
However, Agwyn knew that this, too, was a spirit. The final spirit. 
The rest had done their blessing, and there were no longer any fireflies in the sky.
「I don’t feel anything.」 She said, scuttling closer to Elrhain, 「The others had a sense of self, a mind, and a will to communicate. This one, though…」
「Doesn’t even have a face.」 Elrhain fixed his eyes on it.
There was a rustling sound and a click of a chitinous leg against wood.
The spirit closed, wobbling in the air like a log floating on a river.
It was green like the plants of the forest. But it was also opaque, like the drops of rain, with flecks, specks, cords, and bulbs bobbing up and down within its gelatinous body.
The feelers swayed in space from its front and back. Wet, wobbly, sloshing. It laid on a log-shaped raft of water hyacinth and rotten birch, from which its body grew.
It had seaweed for fur and clams for scales. All alive as the spirit, but dead like it too.
From its skin and flesh lined spikes of bone. Some were its own; others were from creatures of the lakes and gheists from above.
Yet,
「I’ve seen this one before.」 The boy concluded, and Agwyn nodded. 
Till now, she had already seen an octopus with goat heads at the tip of its tentacles, with an ant’s torso behind. She had crossed eyes with a serpent of tongues and mouths, as long as a train yet as thin as her arms.
Out of all of them, this spirit was the most alien, the most frightening, and the most unfeeling. But was also the most familiar.
The secret behind gene-mods, the primordial monster of legends.
「A Hydra」 They spoke together.
The beast, the bastardized version of the immortal, microscopic Cnidarian from Earth, ripped apart its own flesh and reached a tendril inside.
From there, it took out a dripping, gelatinous splat of manna and flung it forward.
Towards Elrhain. 
And the splat vanished into his chest.
「Huh?」 They both stilled, completely flabbergasted.
The Hydra floated for a few more seconds and ran its slimy fillers over Elrhain’s pale face. 
A drizzle of ichor fell out of the Hydra’s flesh and mixed in the wind. The gap in its body closed as it wobbled steadily up in the violent eye-wall of the typhoon.
Then it left, just like that, leaving the boy coughing with slime dripping from his hair and tufts of green smoke entering his eyes, ears and nose.
「All things considered,」 Elrhain spoke after his breath returned to normal. Agwyn supported him the best she could with her chest and shoulder, as they both took the ultimate step of the thousand, 「At least one spirit likes me.」
Agwyn laughed. Glad that the fox-cat-dragon didn’t lie. That Elrhain, too, got to experience the magic of spirits first hand.
It was then that the Dhionne song came to an end. The clan’s role was over. Now, it was all them.

ᛏᚺᛖ ᚡᛖᛋᛋᛖᛚ ᛒᛖ ᚱᛖᛈᚨᚤᛖᛞ ᚹᛁᛏᚺ ᛏᚺᛖ ᚷᚢᛁᛞᛖ ᛟᚠ ᛏᚺᛖ ᛋᚲᛖᛈᛏᛖᚱ,
ᛈᚱᛟᛋᛈᛖᚱᛁᛏᚤ ᛏᛟ ᛖᚨᚱᛏᚺᛚᛟᚲᚺᛋ, ᚹᛁᛏᚺᛟᚢᛏ ᛞᛖᚨᛏᚺ, ᛋᛁᚲᚴᚾᛖᛋᛋ ᛟᚱ ᛋᚺᚨᛗᛖ.





Chapter 20 - Blessing

Agwyn touched her face to see if the pain was an illusion. It stung whenever she looked at the… ‘mound? shrine? altar?’
The collection of bone spike shafts, gheist hide walls, and mudrock foundation stood right under the floating spire in the sky. The single large pillar in the middle, a vertical set of branches and vines with an animal eye drawn in its centre, was what attracted her tearing pupils the most.
Painted a blue and white, the eye blazed in the colours of the aurora but with calmer intensity.
A stream of that multicoloured light spilt up from the top of the pillar with a trickle as it tried to reach the sky. But each time, it fell down like a bird without the strength to fly; the patterns in the altar would dim as if it too was doomed by the failure.
Yet a blink later, it would again shine and try to shoot another stream of light to the heavens.
In front of the altar lay horizontally a massive rock tablet, which looked more like a slab. Its top was polished as smooth as a mirror, with the bottom as jagged as grey granite.
Unlike the altar, the slab looked ancient. As if it was always there, before even the mountains and lakes were formed.
A proof of unchanging eternity, like the spire in the sky. They told the world of its immutable rules.
Elrhain stopped. He looked at her intently with a question in his gaze, and Agwyn realized why.
「Oh, so this is what these do.」 She muttered. Her eyes following the patterns on Elrhain’s face as they shifted and roiled. Akin to a march of ants not knowing where to go.
The paint didn’t glow or shine like everything else magical tended. They merely swam, flowing down from his face in streams into his neck and collar.
From under his feet, they crawled out again, connecting both him and Agwyn to the grooves at the altar’s ends.
「That was creepy, to be honest.」 Elrhain shuddered.
When the last paint poured into the groove, pictures of two tiny children appeared on the slab’s mirror surface. They were in the style of the murals they had seen under the Loch Sagathan Temple, inside the Elder’s rest.
The pictures showed them what they had to do, and what would happen after.
「The ancestor’s guidance,」 Agwyn whispered, studying the murals in trepidation.
The steps showed fewer acts, and even after a few minutes, no apocalyptic vision barged in to create fire and blood.
Just when she was about to sigh in relief, the mirror surface broke down.
They both tiptoed with bated breaths to peer at what rested underneath, only to discover a black, empty chamber.
「No, look closer.」 Elrhain examined the hollow in more detail, sniffing the air and looking tempted to lick the stone too.
Agwyn followed, and then the fragrance hit her. It smelled like manna if manna was a fruit, yet more than ten times more complex. It warred with the scent of the moist wind and earthy foliage of the altar but was never overpowered by them.
By the minute, it got more potent, and suddenly the black hollow began to boil.
The black was actually a thick, inky liquid reflecting not even the shine of the aurora above.
Agwyn took a sharp breath to calm herself but hardly succeeded.
The sound of the world around her faded as she flustered about what to do. But the silent moment also gave her a respite to remember the acts on the murals.
She nodded, now resolved. Elrhain whispered her an encouragement, then stepped back to give her room.
‘There’s nothing to be afraid of. Just follow the ancestors guidance!’
Agwyn angled the jar’s mouth down right above the bubbling black muck. The magical barrier covering the jar cracked, and indigo blue water rushed out in torrents.
It was far more than what could conceivably be held inside a jar this size. Agwyn’s arms started hurting, and even the chilly wind so up high could not stop her from sweating.
The blue and black mixed like a witch’s concoction.
Finally, after what felt like hours, the jar emptied.
The liquid inside the hollow churned, creating a slurping noise. At the same time, the patterns on the altar lit up many times brighter than before, like neon street signs of the red district colonies.
Agwyn hurriedly backed away. The odour from the liquid stung her eyes like kerosene.
In her place, Elrhain stepped forward, nervously glancing at the spectacle.
He heaved as he lifted up one end of the staff and plunged it inside the concoction. The liquid mess splashed all around, but luckily no droplets flew out of the slab.
Elrhain paused for a few seconds to adjust his bearing, then stirred.
The boy looked like a cute little witch mixing his gloomy brew in a cauldron all too large for him. And the magical elixir was fighting back, bent on making the little witch’s life miserable.
Sweat dripped from Elrhain’s scrunched up face, and his tiny hands strained red from the force.
The celestial lights flickered on his frame before hiding behind the clouds again, their pearly sheen glistening off his sweat.
“Ugh!!” With a last cry, he completed one revolution through the mudlike soup and let go; the staff continued to stir as if it had a life of its own.
Agwyn quickly supported him from behind lest he tumble down backwards from the inertia.
The moment they steadied themselves, the brew blazed to red like fire, and the many lines connecting the slab to the altar burned.
It was fuel, they both realized, as the trickling light started expanding.
Then, before they could even gasp in shock, it burst out like a supernova and shot up to the sky like a beam of a hundred million lumens.
It hit the spire right at the base, splashing liquid light all over its surface. The obsidian rocks changed in response; the patterns flared like thunder. Agwyn could almost hear a loud cheer of joy chorusing out from the floating edifice.
Even the gale escaped the area in fright, forcing the lowest of the spiral clouds to scatter with it.
A burnt smell tickled Agwyn’s nose, and Elrhain sneezed from beside her. The spire wasn’t the last haven of the fuel lit lumen as it seemed. The radiant beam simply stayed there for a rest. Wafting, gathering its strength, compounding it a thousand times over.
Then, as if a quasar had formed, light that abashed even a supernova lasered out till the celestial brilliance of the stars and moons hid their faces in shame with a shawl of blackness.
The quasar scorched the loftiest clouds and the midnight blue skies themselves till the sky cried out in pain.
Agwyn waited for a few seconds and then uncovered her hastily covered eyes. The impossibly bright light was nevertheless there, but unlike the sky, her eyes didn’t hurt.
The former looked like the injured flesh of a giant. Bright splotches of wounds painted the endless expanse.
Then suddenly, those gashes connected, and space itself ripped apart. The beasts in the forest roared, the birds hiding under leaves chirped, and the spirits of water howled in joy, swimming freely in the wounded heavens.
A cheer bearing the hopes of uncountable living souls swept in from Lochuir down below and rushed up till it shattered into pieces.
Every living thing in the Earthloch Siorakty, both above and beneath, beseeched to the lacerated firmament, to the swirling white void that slept behind, as if it were a god.
As if it could answer every question, grant every wish, and correct every mistake.
But when the light beam to the sky flickered to dark, when the liquid in the hollow slab dried up, and the white void replied to their pleas, the cheering voices and howls of both dhionne and not, abruptly cut off.
A vortex of manna in the hues of all the colours imaginable and as endless as an ocean cascaded down from the gaping maw like a one-way waterspout.
It hit the Loch Sagathan Temple with the speed of a meteorite as Agwyn’s second life flashed past her eyes.
But the expected death did not come. She lifted her head from Elrhain’s shoulder, letting go of the tight embrace.
Her skin felt ticklish as the manna flowed down and away, like the stroke of a plume on her tender skin.
It passed through the stone under her feet like the aether, but when it reached the earthen surface of the disc, the vortex splashed outwards in a circle.
A tidal wave of mystical energy a hundred kilometres high rose from the impact zone.
From East to West and North to South, the tsunami travelled. But unlike the ruinous natural disaster, this razed no house, uprooted no trees, and swept away no dhionne.
It merely went anywhere the forces demanded, uncaring to even harm those in its path.
A glimpse of the tsunami of manna could still be seen many breaths later, on this world’s boundless horizon, thousands of kilometres away.
The crest of the tide gradually grew weak and weary, like an old titan at the end of its life. It slowed, then ceased.
The tide collapsed into a tranquil flow, which was thus devoured by the clan's forests, mountains, and lakes.
As the murals on the slab had foretold, the manna would nurture these lands for cycles to come, as if the towering titan was returning its flesh and bones to the soil, where a new forest of life would thrive.
Agwyn stood at the top of the temple, taking it all in with all her senses.
It was overwhelming what the actions of two tiny souls could result in this magical world.
She gently clasped Elrhain’s hand, weaving her fingers with his own. The two together looked at the misty scene below, still unsure of what to feel.
Leftover manna floated about the earth as if the clouds were tired and had come down for a rest.
Above, the stars and the moons had reshown their shy visages, and the spirits had all left without the clamour with which they came.
The cacophony of insects and animals choired once again from the forest all around. The smell of fresh air and the rain harmonized with the land itself, bringing with it a hymn both new and old.
Just as things were, before the ritual had started, but by the breaths, it was not.
Everything had gone from magical to apocalyptic too fast for Agwyn’s tiny brain to cope.
Now the night wind soothed those tense neurons and muscles. The sense of incongruity was replaced with the routine.
The ritual was at last completed.
The Earthloch, both lake, land and life, had been blessed, and the world was back to normal.






Chapter 21 - Fists and Swords

The midnight moon shined its pearly light onto the disc without caring about the woes of the mortals.
It had just unveiled itself, heralding the howls of a million eager creatures all throughout the lands. The smell of the fresh grass and leaves seemed to etch deeper, and the even blackest shadows receded, permitting room to only the calm dark of a starlit night.
Yet, the zeal of life didn’t reach everyone.
Eluned Earthloch Siaglas rested her cheeks on her palms, sitting quietly on a tree stump at the very edge of the noble stage. 
She had at first declined the Grand Elder’s invitation for a closer seat in favour of getting to know her clan sisters. She would chat and make merry with fellow noble ladies under the giant sheet of water in the sky. The same magical device reflected the two children on the temple stairs.
At first, she was delighted. She would not miss any of their little antics and the tiny steps they took. It was as if she was there to adventure with them.
But then the spirits appeared, offering their orbs to only her daughter, and her clan sisters’ conduct drastically reversed.
It had broken her heart.
“… lowborn… not one gift….”
“Heh… even spirits….”
“My son… two hundred specks….”
She picked up the whispers of the ladies around, not that they tried particularly hard to hide them. 
The thorn laden voices pained her with more flame than the poison of a rot flower. Her fists slowly curled as her breath did hasten. But they never stayed clenched for long.
Eluned could not feel angry. She had somewhat expected this manner of treatment after the journey to Lochuir earlier that day. But there was a faint flicker of hope she didn’t wish to so quickly snuff, a yearning for friendship and fruitful bonds.
Reality did not care.
‘Just because they have prettier rocks, smoother pelt, more colourful feathers,’ Eluned lamented, ‘and higher cultivation, they can mock….’
The ladies with fancier garbs mocked the robes she bled heart and soul hard to make for her son and daughter. They ridiculed her husband for thievery. That he who was merely in his 2nd circle of manna, far lower in prowess than low oceanic, which was held as the minimum threshold required to be a Reanakt, had plundered the achievements of others. 
One antlered woman even asserted with expert poise, citing her brother and sons, that a mere low-blood like Dofnald would never arrive at the 5th circle, the first of oceanic realms.
Those who didn’t insult their heritage derided her son for being looked down upon by even the spirits. A lady with four arms even spat at her feet, calling her and her son unworthy to ever be Dofnald’s scion, blaming her for ruining her husband’s future. 
That she must have surely sired a ‘waste’ like Elrhain with another unnamed servant in an unspoken affair.
Even with Eluned’s taller frame, the dainty four-armed maiden loomed over her with the rage of a beast, enough so that Eluned could not even speak back.
So, she escaped the haughty dames and prideful noble huntresses, brooding alone in the corner on a splintered stump in shame.
The ground here was not pressed flat, and the view of the water sheet was blurry and distant.
Nevertheless, it was enough for her. She still saw little Gwyn take in blessing after blessing.
A part of her felt heavy, but a darker part she wished to bury under the lakes, felt spite.
One mighty being moved aside as another took its place to shower Agwyn with acknowledgement and prestige. At the same time, they delegated her Rhain to the sidelines. 
Both babes were birthed on the same day! What did Agwyn have that Elrhain didn’t? They both grew up on her milk, on Cyra’s milk, on the same crib bathing in the same wind, water and sunshine.
Yet while Agwyn hugged the giant jar up the stairs with ease, Elrhain struggled to even lift the staff.
‘Why shouldn’t he! He is barely three. Gwyn has always been active. She even crawled more than Rhain when they were but a season old! Normal boys his age can’t carry the weight of the ancestor’s artefact… normal boys….’ 
Eluned lost her rage to words. She thought hard and searched deep inside for more excuses that her son didn’t need, for more things she could say to herself to feel better.
She only found tears. 
‘It’s not his fault!’
Eluned was now a noble only because of a whimsical joke that fate performed, binding her son to the princess as the consort. Yet, for once, she thought fate was fair!
She could swear on her life and her love for Dofnald that the disc had made Gwyn and Rhain for each other.
They hugged and snuggled and never fought like other children so often did. They brought nothing but joy and fulfilment to both her family and Cyra’s.
Moreover, Eluned’s worldly life had improved tremendously because of the two kids’ betrothal.
She never had to toil in the gardens, burning her hands to the poisons of painweeds. 
She passed the time lacing gheist hide, leaves, and vines into robes and kilts, or carving shells of clams, bugs and nuts to sculpt memoirs for the clan’s new heir and heiress; an amateur hobby she had developed after seeing one of Crya’s maids so proficient in the craft.
Eluned and her Siaglas homestead had their very own courtyard of magic! The clan showered them with more resources than they could ever possibly dream of. Training and elixirs for her husband, and the same for herself, which she was sure she didn’t need. Finally, the cutest daughter she never knew she needed.
A pang of guilt prickled Eluned’s heart when she came to the realization that she was utterly smitten with the comfortable life right now.
It had blinded her, and before today, she didn’t even recognize the fact.
Eluned was but a servant before her son was born. She never learnt the knowledge to even ruminate about things such as social intricacies or prejudice.
The clan had sheltered her for three cycles from the judging gazes of the fellow nobles, whom she had thought of as sisters in her heart. Because Cyra, the noblest of them all, had set too good of precedence.
But after passing through so many dhionne homesteads in the span of just one afternoon, experiencing the high and mighty peacocks jeer at her person and family without provocation and returning her greetings of goodwill with pointed fingers and slanders?
She felt unsure if she was truly suitable to live such a life. If she could even protect it from the malice outside.
Her husband could shrug the glares off like they were the pecks of fruit flies, but Eluned couldn’t.
She was meek.
‘Why!’ Eluned’s sobbed, anguish painting her muffled up voice, ‘Why can I not? Why, does this happen every time my life becomes better?’
She hoped more than once that this time, finally, her bliss would last forever. Her hardships before were but tests the disc had made her suffer to earn her present life.
Today, she found out fate had cursed her yet again, replaying its evil omens as assuredly as the dark winter visits the disc each cycle.
Every time her situation turned for the better, every time she thought she had escaped the pit of darkness, something would happen that would make her doubt.
Then her doubt would invariably turn into reality.
It happened once before because she tried to change and once because she didn’t. Because the world didn’t like either of those choices. So it would send down an auspice to tell her that the beautiful life she knew was but a lie.
And now that she knew the truth, she had to pay back the world with ten times the misery.
Eluned eyed at her pelted robe with newfound hatred. Muddy green, and not one single feather. She could lace a more beautiful set, but she didn’t. She didn’t even try. 
‘Why hadn’t I?’
Because trying to be prettier was a change that caused her blood sister to wish for her cruel death.
What about when she didn’t try to better her fate? 
The world would step in to do where her sister failed.
She was afraid to go forward and afraid to step back. She was afraid too to just stand still and let time flow.
Most of all, she was afraid that her new family would learn of her unsightly fears.
What would her husband think if she were to be so weak? What would the Chieftain, Cyra, and Father Thundham think?
Eluned’s hands rested feebly on her knees. She sighed a foul breath, hoping that her demons would leave with the wind.
Yet, they did not.
Because after ruminating her lot in fate the entire night, watching the two tiny children tread their way up the thousand stairs, she realized that these nobles were not the problem. 
Neither was her husband, the chieftain’s family, her son, or the prosperous life she led right now.
She was.
If anything destroyed her family again, it would be her own actions, her own inactions. After all, when the nobles mocked, she only stood in place and squirmed with a fearful smile. She could blame her past as a servant for all she was worth, but would the nobles stop insulting her because of that?
No, that wasn’t the solution. It was but an excuse Eluned gave herself to escape the burden of a noble’s responsibility.
Eluned was lost on how to fix herself.
What might such a weakling even do to safeguard her current happiness till death tore it apart, when she was even blind to tell right from wrong?
‘I…’,
Eluned’s spiral of negative thoughts hit her nerves again and again, like the tornado in the sky, uncaring at how it blotted out the celestial lights. The grinder of a hundred thousand worries told her that she, was, bland.
She had no ambitions, no dreams, and no honour to repay the clan.
And her love for her children? 
Well, they, too, had long outgrown her milk.
She had nothing left to contribute. No redeeming qualities. Only a beacon of rotten luck.
Her parents had thrown her aside when she refused the court of her childless blood sister’s husband.
Her first noble master when she could be nothing but a maid, the scion of a mighty Onthoakt whom she loved and offered her body day and night, whom she thought had loved her back, left her to die in the mouth of a bloodthirsty gheist at the first signs of trouble. For she was merely loved as a toy in bed and a bait outside.
Her saviour, the new heart of her love, the crude but steadfast Dofnald had surrendered his chance to advance to middle earthen once before, when he made her his bride. He had thrown away the right of a noble marriage, for she was his resolve. Which was precisely why…
…she was as worthless as these ladies mocked.
All she had were excuses, excuses, and more buckets full of excuses. 
‘Blame her luck, blame the world, blame the nobles but not yourself.’
She was but a victim of fate’s forbidden plays.
‘Right?’
After she had wailed in this simple fact for the last thirty cycles, today for the first time in her life, she glimpsed the tail of a different answer in the sea of despair.
As elusive as a lake spirit in water, the answer was still shrouded in dark reefs and murky swirls, but it was certainly there. She heard its fins cut through the currents, smelled its delicate scent of flesh, and almost reached it with her mind’s extended hands. 
All she had to do was look past the dread of the deep and fear of the unknown to…
‘Would the clan, Cyra and my husband also forsake me one day?’
The darkness fought back, attempting to raise a stronger storm of torment to hide the answer to all her pleas. 
It tried to creep out of her mind and into her body as her face started twisting into a pale mask of terror, as if she was suffocating under the weight of a million tons of water, stuck on a bed of quicksand on the seafloor.
‘No!’ Eluned pushed it down and swam up to the light, more out of shame than in purpose. The devils of despair chased after her the like leeches out for blood.
But Eluned didn’t look back. She did not want to show that face now, of all places, with the noble lords and ladies watching her every move, judging her to spot new a weakness they could latch onto.
That face when her brother-in-law had broken into her lonely hut with his overwhelming lust, to force on her a putrid pot of ripening brew, to sire his child in her sister’s steed.
That face when she stared death on the bloodstained fangs of a Racadger from but a few inches away…and understood, the same lust was the only reason her former master had deigned to keep her as more than a servant.
‘But… why does my face matter?’
Eluned lifted her head slowly and examined the various groups of nobles, lords and ladies, gathering the stage. As if they too might point her to her answer.
No matter how unsightly their current state was.
Some nobles were fuming red in embarrassment or rage; some were dead intoxicated with their heads nose deep in pots of aged fruit pulp. One lady’s face morphed into a beastly scowl as her flat eyes reflected the hands of a man and woman clasped together, while another had a depraved smirk as she frothed droplets of lust in a certain wedded lord’s direction, a pink tipsy light in her eyes.
A few other nobles stared up towards the thousands of fireflies in the sky with unhidden dread washing their face. Others looked so ecstatic they had to stop themselves from jumping up into the skies to catch a few specks of light for their own.
Eluned’s eyes caught it all, and the world seemed to clear up.
She tilted her head in confusion, the darkness behind her practically retreating like a kicked puppy.
‘Why, can they show the faces I always tried so desperately to hide away?’
Eluned pondered some more. 
Now, she really wasn’t a servant. 
With that thought finally sunk deep into her psyche, possibilities she was utterly oblivious to opened their doors.
Eluned had both material and spiritual opportunities that were unimaginable to her ten cycles ago. A lover she knew who sought not her body but her heart, a son and daughter she could play with day and night, and in-laws who cared for her far more than her own siblings and parents did.
‘But!’ Eluned placed her palms above her heart. The constant throb had sped up like a raging, heated Kaloxen’s.
She sensed it. 
The answer to all her woes and misery was closer than ever before. Her spine shivered with a kind of euphoria as she involuntarily glanced up at the sky. The lacerated firmament told her to look deep within one more time. 
‘What do I need to protect us?’
She didn’t sense it in her mind’s sea anymore. It had escaped!
So, she hunted for it in the beam of light that had just flickered to darkness, in the panicking lords and ladies who all stood up, acting as if their fate was no longer in their hands.
She searched in the choir of prayers that resulted, where the voices of servants, nobles and freemen all blended together.
‘Just because they have prettier rocks, smoother pelt, more colourful feathers….’
“There!”
Eluned grabbed hold of one tiny fibre of the answer. Just a little more, and she would have it!
Her face turned crimson, and the sights and buzzes around her faded to a bleak grey so that solely the most important part of the world would reflect on her senses.
Finally, some things began to colour themselves again in the monotone world.
When the wind turned radiant as the flood of manna lead by a hundred thousand spirits tided upon the lands.
When the clamour of the mighty nobles died down as if they too had turned as meek as a servant, surrendering their life to a master they could not name.
When she saw Father Thundham soar into the sky towards the temple like a dragon, with the other nobles following him on the ground like little birdlings who knew not how to fly.
When she heard Bromwyn shout like a primordial lion, and everyone around bent down to cater to his every single demand.
And when she saw her reluctant son and lively daughter stare down from above the clouds, their eyes brimming with confidence, as if the world was in their hands.
Thus, she found her answer. The one true principle of this savage land without a heart to praise love. The only way she could protect her own love was one of the few things she never felt a need to try before.
She never believed she was capable; she appraised herself unworthy. 
But now, she re-evaluated her chances. The window to magnificence she had for the last three cycles just like her husband, which she had neglected because of so many laughable excuses.
The answer was so simple, always in plain sight. It was everywhere around her. In the arrogance of the nobles, the clan’s love, and the vastness of the skies, the earths and the hundred thousand lakes.
It was what could have saved her when that creep broke into her hut, when that promiscuous liar ran, leaving her alone in a hostile forest. It was the sole reason these nobles could mock her humble roots today. It was just because,
‘They have a higher cultivation….’
The maelstrom of thoughts vanished, and only one vow remained.
‘A kick to their groins and a sword to their backs. For all the cheats and all the beasts,’ Eluned narrowed her eyes, her fists at last remaining clenched. 
‘I need to become stronger. I need to cultivate!’




Chapter 22 - For the Progress of the Clan

Bevin Earthloch Sonora gently glided on the foliaged ground with the calm of a mastiff, the grace of a feline, and the speed of an eagle.
Yet his inner state was anything but gentle.
‘Fallacy! T-This cannot be allowed to happen!’
The man, always so derisive, as if others were nothing but pebbles beneath his feet, felt his mind go red with fury and disappointment.
‘Our princess cannot be permitted to marry some low-blood whelp. We cannot leave the future of the clan mingled with such utter farmhands!’
At first, when he had heard of this preposterous decision a cycle ago, he was only a little indignant. 
Yet since he was an Elder with a responsible heart, seeking only the best for the clan, Bevin used his status as the Elder of the Sonora house to try and persuade his blood aunt, the Grand Shamanka, to call off such a ludicrous betrothal. He had even personally visited her a few times throughout the past few seasons.
His own house had a far better candidate. His blood grandson was unparalleled in the talent of the blazing rivers, a true supreme of both water and fire!
Who else but he was worthy of being the prince consort and lead the clan towards progress? In fact, from the words he had gleaned from Elder Croneira’s disciples, it was the princess who was undeserving of his grandson.
Like what was so common with weak blooded, manna starved servants, the girl had almost died at birth.
But he could overlook that. She was, after all, the chieftain’s only daughter. And besides, it would be her honour to sire a stronger Earthloch child with his grandson. For such a weak princess, what better way was there to contribute to the clan?
For their own family’s heir, too, he would have the boy take a concubine with higher talent than that Agwyn Cyra Earthloch. Preferably a graceful dame from the Yuriel Impelakty practising the [Nephilim Birth] cultivation technique.
It would kill three fliers with one pebble. Bring the Earthloch main house and their own Palaikt family closer together, forge stronger bonds with the scholars of the Yuriels, and ultimately, keep a Sonora heir who would be stronger than the main house’s.
Bevin was assured that it was the lakes themselves who had planted such a flawless, unassailable master plan in his head.
The two future heirs of the Palaikty and Siorrakty families would be blood siblings. What bond could be closer? It would be the perfect gateway to revolutionize the entire clan from within, discard those laughable old practices and embrace true modernity.
So he had tried to let his stubborn old aunt witness his grand vision with logical reasoning, fate given proof, and lettered deductions.
All he got in return was a severe beating he had not experienced since his own father was the Palaikt.
Bevin almost vomited blood just remembering that event.
His heart swelled with discontent at how blind every single one of the three leaders was.
That is, until today.
When Bevin laid his eyes upon the princess for the first time during this late noon, he had nearly fainted in shock. He wanted to immediately punish those lying disciples of Elder Croneira!
How dare they mislead him so? Almost died during birth? Her?
What high deception, Croneira Gellen Earthloch, and remarkably well played.
It was as if the spirits had moulded the little girl themselves, sculpting all the superlative qualities of Dhionne and Faediaga into one tiny body.
Was she a supreme? No, her various cultivation roots didn’t appear so profoundly unique in his Totem, the [Crimson Tears of the Thousand Eyes], not like his grandson’s. He had seen the departed Stormfelt’s heir too. That boys’ shadows alone convinced him why the last circle was considered nothing but a stick and vine blockade to supreme talents.
No. All of the princess’s many roots were merely the best, excluding supremes. But couple that with the sheer number of cultivation roots she possessed, and it painted an altogether different picture.
According to the storytellers, the Earthloch founder was precisely like the princess, and hadn’t he easily broken through the last circle easily?
Bevin realized he was such a fool! How could he claim to his aunt that the princess was less in talent? No wonder she was so infuriated.
Then Bevin laid his eyes upon the prince consort, and thunder clapped in his ears.
‘Simply despicable!’
What manner of trickery did the newly named Siaglas use to engage their dreg of a son to the princess?
Bevin all told scrapped his previous plan and started constructing a finer one with the remains.
If a mere servant family could trick their way up to Reanakt, then he could do better. And he would not even need trickery, only educated calculations.
The events after midnight both solidified his resolve and enlightened him with the last clue to perfect his new and improved proposal.
The princess had received the gifts of all but one of their hundred thousand great lake spirits. She single-handedly called down enough manna to trigger the collapse.
‘Spirits bless my aunt’s rigid mind. She cannot still have the faulty judgement to uphold the princess’s marriage with a low-blooded now, can she?’
Bevin hastened his pace, pumping more manna into his back and legs.
The Grand Elder was a speck in the sky by now, descending upon the top of Loch Sagathan Temple by flight. The Grand Shamanka had also flown her way up immediately after the tides ended.
‘Grimes of Gheists!’
Sometimes, he, too, could not help but feel how unfair sky realmers were. He knew his own talent, and breaking the seventh circle to the sky in his lifetime would be as difficult as scaling the disc on foot as a mortal.
Yet that was hierarchy, something he respected with his life.
Bevin reached out to the legacy of the great spirit of Loch Sonora, the Redcloud Surfer in his ichoric heart chamber, and let the overwhelming oceanic manna guide his movements.
The world sped up around him, and the star lights morphed into straight bands of fire. Even the smells and sounds of nature dimmed and distorted until nothing but the scorching winds remained.
Bevin jumped with all the momentum he had mastered, and the moons in the sky seem to move closer.
There were a few seconds of tranquil silence. Only in moments like these could he truly be alone with his thoughts.
He took the respite to tidy up any loose ends of his plan, and when he was at last satisfied, his feet once again touched the ground.
The dust clouded up around the spot where he landed. He punched the stone foundation of the temple gates to dissipate the momentum.
Yet he was intricate in his arts, and not even a pebble of the ruined gate was further damaged.
By the time he stood up straight with the confidence oozing from his body, a series of thumps had thudded behind him.
His brothers in arms, the enlightened of the letters, and the lords of the western lakes had followed him to support his just cause.
Bevin could not stop, his mouth curling up into an earnest smile. He would not betray their trust.
‘Those eastern lake savages claim we follow the words of the Yuriel scholars blindly.’ Bevin changed his gait into that of Elder Sonora’s, and his smile reformed into something loftier.
‘So let us prove them wrong.’
He knew very well that a decision carried out by the Grand Elder, the Grand Shamanka, and the Chieftain would never be reversed in ordinary times.
But the times would be anything but ordinary come sunrise. The collapse would force the clan to progress forward without a halt in steps, or perish!
Hence, the decision could be altered slightly, rather than abjured. If the three leaders indeed had the clan’s future in their hearts, they wouldn’t mind adding a few passages to the betrothal scroll of the princess, would they?
The smile on his face stretched bigger. He realized that simple progress was not adequate.
It also had to be unique.
‘The Yuriels say a man of power must have more than one mate, and a woman of faith must share her powerful man with many sisters.’
‘The blood of the strong must pass down, and the blood of the weak must be eliminated. Women are to be admired like our great manna-rioghs. They sacrifice their body and cultivate hard to sire more talented offspring. Only the strongest of men are worthy of owning a woman’s womb. Or else it would be unfair to the clan sister and daughters. What if the circumstances drove her to sire a child with an untalented waste? How bleak would such a future be?’
Elder Sonora had always found logic in those scholarly words. He had even urged his own daughter to take up the Yuriel method for female cultivation. At first, she was indignant, as most women of Earthlochs tend to be.
But in the end, she had seen her father’s care and agreed to sire a child with one Yuriel Palaikt. Of course, she would never be the principal wife. She would suffer a bit, but her sacrifice had now paid off.
The best part was, those Yuriel nobles will never know what they missed.
Elder Sonora’s daughter had unexpectedly returned to the clan six cycles ago, crying, “They called me a sow, honoured father. That I sold my chastity to steal Yuriel bloodlines! I would rather die than give my body to that viper again!”
Elder Sonora had lamented seeing her anguished visage. Perhaps compelling his Earthloch bred daughter to live the lifestyle of the Impelakty was an incorrect decision?
He immediately threw that thought away when his grandson was birthed.
No, he slightly changed that thought. As he would change the leaders’ decisions from now on.
His grandson was all the proof he needed.
‘Such elegance, like the mythical phoenix! Such blazing blood, like the summer Sohwl! Such eminent spirit, like a sea of lava!’
The boy had both vindicated his choice of adhering to the Yuriel’s scholarly methods and planted a seed of doubt in his mind towards how the Yuriel nobles themselves handled their own ideology.
After all, they had failed in making his daughter a part of their clan.
It simply meant that the Yuriels were the untalented party in the marriage. It was a fortune on a stormy day that his pregnant daughter had the foresight to travel back home, despite the thousands of kilometres of treacherous paths separating the two dominions.
Indeed, women were not to be underestimated. He vowed to conduct himself hereafter and to never show any unjust disdain towards them again.
‘Because,’
Elder Sonora strode forward, pride singing in his every footstep. His smile didn’t dwindle in the slightest when he neared the chieftain, who sat cross-legged on the rubbled ground in front of the ruined gates.
‘We are not the Yuriels!’
Elder Sonora stared down at the burly man. The discrepancy of power between them became apparent at a glance. Even the nervous chattering of the crowd, the stink of worry and uncertainty of the dhionne could not take away the pride in the burly man’s might.
The chieftain loomed over everyone and everything in the vicinity, even though he was sitting down with eyes closed. No one, not even the reckless Palaikt Sabhalan or he himself, would dare to ignore him and walk around the dilapidated gate pillars to the place where the chieftainess stood, alongside that low-blooded Siaglas deceiver.
But power mattered not right now.
His plan was one that would take time and effort. Planting a seed in the chief’s mind did not require him to be stronger, only wiser.
Elder Sonora steadied his composure, reigning in the pride and surfacing his deference. Because untamed pride was a manifestation of regressive customs. And,
‘We are Earthlochs! We are the most progressive.’
Bromwyn opened his eyes. Those giant lilac swirls held a promise of brutality and retribution. Elder Sonora knew that the chieftain had not the greatest of opinions about himself. Mainly because of unfortunate past events.
But this time, it would be different. Elder Sonora replayed the princess’s blessed deeds and his own daughter’s bravery in his mind. They favoured him with power, and he would from now strive to repay all of them a hundredfold!
‘We will let our women, too, become the owners of many manna-rioghs!!’
They would swim through the collapse that is to come, unharmed under the leadership of the princess. She would unify all talented houses with the vow of marriage, and the Earthlochs would become the greatest clan on the disc.




Chapter 23 - Ignition

Lochuir was in chaos.
Everyone, servants, freemen and nobles alike, had clambered down from the ridges, left the stages, and ran out from their dwellings in both fear and hope.
They gathered in front of the gates of the Loch Sagathan Temple, where Bromwyn and his cousins, the main house elders and shamans blocked their path to the thousand steps with cold resolve.
As the Siorrakt, he would not allow a nervous mob to ruin today’s holy rite. Yet, despite the obvious warning in his eyes, he could sympathize with his subjects.
The dhionne men, women, children and old waited for his grand-aunt and father to come down. The decree of the ancestors mandated by the leaders would be the only thing that could placate the populace’s anxious minds.
Only in their guidance would they find the resolve to scare away the fear of an unknown future.
He saw the nobles take in deep breaths. They tried and failed to hold their trembling hands still, some in horror, some in glee.
Of the freemen, some glanced at the nobles with clear avarice in their gaze, and some peered at the exit to the Lochuir township in unease. The servants only fidgeted about, not even knowing what to do.
Regardless, they all either cried or cheered or stared blankly up at the sky. Everyone there, including Bromwyn, knew exactly of one fact.
A new era had arrived.
Because the tide of blessing had left behind not merely visions of prosperity but also prophecies of destruction.
Everyone had heard the stories. The fearful ones knew what to expect but not what to do. The smart ones were already forming plans. Scheming even, if they were opportunistic enough.
Like the antlered man in front of him.
Elder Sonora talked on and on about ideology and whatnot. Most of which went in one of Bromwyn’s ears and left through the other.
Until he started hinting about concubine candidates for his little Gwyn. The old man even had the gall to suggest it as something the clan could not do without.
‘Did he not eat grass today? Why is he so damn excited? Time and place, Uncle Bevin, you’ve lived too long to forget that.’
Bromwyn cracked his neck as threateningly as he could while blasting out an annoyed sigh, which came out louder than Alleigh’s roars.
And to his joy, Elder Sonora’s narration halted, with the older man taking a few steps back. Yet after but a second, his composure returned, and he was about to go on praising how his grandson burnt hotter than a wildfire.
‘Finally found his spine, did he?’ Bromwyn was shocked at the unnaturally brave front of the old man who should be a spineless wimp. Either way, he tried to spook him one more time.
Bromwyn cracked his neck again in the other direction, then slammed the rubbled ground with his palms.
His cousin and aid, Cadwell, looked at him with slanted eyes. But Bromwyn ignored that, surprised that his second attempt at scaring off the coward had also failed. Usually, at this stage, the antlered man would scamper away like a babe by himself, spouting high sounding threats.
Bromwyn always appreciated a dhionne finding their gallant inner selves. But spirits help him when the same only turned Elder Sonora a hundred times more vexing. He had to keep his hands steady from punching the buffoon in half.
After all, it was Elder Sonora’s fault his little princess had gone to the ritual angry at Daddee.
‘Stop!’ Bromwyn gritted his teeth and tried to replace Agwyn’s pouting face with a cheerful one. It only caused him to hate himself, which definitely wasn’t the time to place such thoughts in his mind. 
‘It’s unbecoming. Not now Bromwyn, not now.’
But he failed spectacularly, and his stern visage involuntarily melted into a full-faced, doughy-eyed grin.
‘My valiant Gwyn is so cute when she is angry too!’
It took one disappointed tsk from Cadwell, and Elder Sonora, at last, jolting his head away in horror that Bromwyn realized what he had done. He coughed loudly to distract them, hurriedly composing himself from that shameful expression.
But now that the antlered man had lost his spine again—as he should be, Bromwyn spoke with a booming voice, striking the iron while it was hot.
“Elder Sonora, I hear and will give thought. But maybe now isn’t the proper time for this… suggestion? After all, my daughter had just gotten betrothed!”
“Gheistfurs! How rude of me, my lord!” Elder Sonora’s face paled. Or did it get brighter, actually?
‘Oh, spirits. I should not have responded to him.’
Bromwyn’s fears came true when Sonora knelt down with the poise of a martyr, shouting, “I will kowtow on the sharp stones until the Grand Shamanka and Grand Elder descends, to atone for my follies. But it gives my heart nothing but hope, that you will deign to even think about my untimely suggestion.”
And all his cronies followed, shouting the same thing like a nest of Talkabirds.
Bromwyn facepalmed.
It was always like this. Whether this man was a coward or not didn’t matter. He would always, always, try to ruin everyone but his own fun.
When Bromwyn had gotten inaugurated as heir, they came to him beating drums and clapping rocks with their ‘jade skinned, learnt in the crafts of arts’ sisters and daughters.
Bromwyn scoffed, ‘Certainly, Onthoakt Laerock’s sister was jade skinned.’
When Bromwyn steeled himself to wed the far stronger, far older Cyra, Elder Sonora returned again to propose the thousand reasons why Cyra should accept five other ladies into their matrimony, to her face.
The marriage was itself quite precarious at that time since it was out of convenience and obligation. Cyra’s Faediaga flock would never marry their Eldress off like that if their survival wasn’t hinging on it.
But that was that, and this was this.
Elder Sonora single-handedly turned Cyra’s poor impression of Bromwyn to the absolute worst impression in a matter of minutes.
Cyra’s flock even accused him of dishonouring the ancient pacts of Lou and Earthloch, that he was taking advantage of the Lou flock now that he knew Cyra was at his mercy.
That was the first time in his life he had felt killing intent towards a clan member. It took cycles of pampering to each of his wife’s many ridiculous fancies to mend that initial impression.
Bromwyn predicted that Elder Sonora’s zeal to progress the clan would be absolutely unbearable this time, and Bromwyn might actually murder the antlered man if he got the chance.
As unvaliant as that would be, sometimes, as one of the clan leaders, he had to make the hard choices.
During Bromwyn’s father’s ritual, only seven hundred and fifty-four spirits blessed the clan. It was one thousand, two hundred and ninety-eight during his. There was only a light manna shower in both cases.
This time, the heavens collapsed, and a hundred thousand spirits sauntered their way in like they owned the place.
It would not surprise Bromwyn if Elder Sonora and his cronies called forth all the unwed noble bachelors in the western lakes, regardless if they were six cycles old or sixty, and order them to vie for little Gwyn’s hand.
Last time, they could force nothing drastic on the sky realmer Cyra, as that would only lead to unnecessary deaths.
This time, they might think the Siaglas Reanakty was helpless to refuse their demands. They might even find a chance to threaten the gullible Eluned while Dofnald was not there or scheme a hundred other sinister tricks.
The very thought gave Bromwyn a headache. Neither he, Dofnald, or Cyra could do anything more about Eluned’s timidity. So, Bromwyn would simply let the meek woman be. He, as chieftain, would have his own house look after the young Siaglas Reanakty until they had enough strength to defend themselves.
It was fortunate that Dofnald was talented enough.
As he was brooding in his thoughts, a few shadows suddenly flickered on Bromwyn’s face. 
The wind around had gone eerily stiff, but he seemed to be the only one to notice.
So he clapped his palms, sending out not only an avalanche of echoes but also a demand for silence.
Bromwyn stood up, stretching his arms and legs. After a few eye contacts with Cadwell and his other clan siblings, he turned around and bowed as humbly as he could towards the stairs leading to the sky. A hundred paces in front of him, Dofnald and Cyra did the same.
The crowd finally noticed the two grand figures coming down like deities and followed Bromwyn’s actions. Like a field of flowers closing bloom from north to south, with but a breaths interval.
“Rise,” The Grand Shamanka’s voice resounded like the muffled thunder on a stormy night. She stood in the fore, her shawls of manna drifting, uncaring like her titanic might. His father stood after, protecting the two adorable gremlins poking out from behind his legs from any ill gazes.
Bromwyn huffed in relief. Seeing them both safe and sound after experiencing such a cataclysmic collapse as the vanguard for their clan, even with such petite bodies, gave rise to both unfettered pride and cold dread in his heart.
‘As long as they are fine, it is enough.’ His heartbeat steadied, with all the annoyance from Elder Sonora’s tirades now forgotten.
As such, he could concentrate his ear on Lilian’s proclamations. He could use the guidance as much as his clansmen would, after what had transpired tonight.
“Dear brothers and sisters of my clan.” Lilian’s voice went up a few more octaves yet did not lose its signature chime. “Today, I stand before you with a heavy heart, but also a heart full of anticipation.
All of you have seen the blessing our prince and princess, the Siaglas heir and Earthloch heiress, called forth. The flight of a hundred thousand spirits and the sea of manna that spilt down from the sky.” She stopped, her gaze scouring the crowd below for a few quiet breaths of time.
A choir of gulps sounded from all around Lochuir, yet they died soon again.
“After today, the manna-rioghs will wake up in full force. The lakes of the far will go into a deep slumber until the brave can wake them once again. The gheists will rise in defiance, more powerful than ever before. Your homes and villages in all the corners of the Siorrakty will be razed to the ground. We will be trapped in the lands of Earthloch for many tens of cycles to come, severed from the disc as a whole. And many of us and many whom we love will die.”
The crowd took another round of deep breaths, and the clattering teeth raised a symphony of terror.
“Yet do not fear, my brothers and sisters. Haste with our mandates to your homes and bring back your family. Send out messengers to all corners of Earthloch, and the disc far beyond. Call back the guardians and the hunters, the disc-walkers and riogh-delvers. For we shall ultimately prevail!
With death, we will grow strong! The manna-rioghs will give us riches that even the Impelakty cannot fathom, in numbers as stars in the sky. The lakes will rise once more and shower us with ichors for your cultivation and longevity. The elixir herbs will sprout from the ground like weeds after rain, and there will be manna-cores in even the weakest of gheists for us to harvest!” Lilian roared.
Just like that, the fear sizzled away like fire in the rain, replaced by dreams of grandeur.
Bromwyn could feel the tension rise with every word the Grand Shamanka uttered.
She expertly painted a victorious vision of the future. For nobles, it was cultivation. For freemen, it was nobility. And for the servants?
It was freedom.
The breathing of the crowd grew heavier once more, but this time the tempo was different. This was a nasally panting; fast, unsteady, and impatient.
Lilian continued, raising her staff up high.
“The other clans and tribes will dare not step a single foot on our lands, for they cower in the might of our ancestral blessing! Lest they be cursed by the spirits of our guardian lakes for stealing what is ours! Because this is the grace of our ancestors, not theirs! So they will envy us, insult us that we are trapped like prey with the gheists and the rioghs.
But the truth is that the gheists and rioghs are trapped here with us! And not the other way around! So when the next generations come, we will reveal ourselves to the disc far stronger. We will show ourselves with many more thousands of Earthen realmers and many more tens of Oceanic. Maybe, maybe one of you will even….” Lilian’s face blushed a vivid red as her eyes turned into crescents. Even she could not control the fervour in her breath now, as she smiled like a poisonous flower, facing everyone in Lochuir.
Bromwyn felt goosebumps run down his spine as the crowd around watched on with greedy glints in their eyes. They all knew what the following words were; they knew what Lilian’s speech hinted at, and wanted her predictions to come true with all the fibres of their being.
“One of you will be the next Sky realmer of our clan.”
All hell broke loose. Regardless of status and strength, everyone cheered like the mere mention of Sky injected them with chicken blood. A few minutes passed, and the cheering gradually died. Yet, the heated zeal remained.
It was palpable, as true as the rocks on the ground and trees on the mountains. Bromwyn saw it, smelled it, and could almost touch it with his hands.
“The collapsing tides bring with it danger and fortune side by side. Just as you have hope of touching the sky, I, too, have the hope of reaching beyond! Just like the founder had, the Waveking Ieuan had, and their companions had when they too lived through the collapse that had graced the clan in their times.
So do not despair. Smile, and find the heroic souls within yourselves. Run forth, and share your valour with your children, spouse and parents. Tell them that the future will only be brighter, never darker.
Since we have to give blood, we will give more of it. But we will take a million times more in return and raise our clan higher than all others on the disc!
Our struggle this time is for ascension! We will stop at nothing until we clinch the peaks with our bloodstained hands.
Be ready, my brothers and sisters. For we cannot afford to lose our heart, our courage, and our ambitions. Keep the spirit of our ancestors alive, and keep the momentum from it heated, because if we stop, the blessed tide will morph into a cursed collapse.
Be fast, be steady, be brave, be bold, be greedy, and be loyal.
Blessed be the princess! Blessed be the prince! Blessed be the lands, and many lakes of Earthloch!”
“Blessed be the princess! Blessed be the prince! Blessed be the lands, and many lakes of Earthloch!”
“Blessed be the princess! Blessed be the prince! Blessed be the lands, and many lakes of Earthloch!”
The people cried and laughed and rallied and hailed. It didn’t stop until the Sohwl rose. The feast that night was the greatest Bromwyn had ever seen in his life.






Chapter 24 - Aftermath in Summer
Elrhain rested his chin on his arms while they dangled on the windowsill. He extended a palm out, enjoying the flow of the summer breeze up high. The birds all around chirped in joy as the manna rich fresh air nurtured both prey and predators.
The insects dutifully went about their day collecting grub and greens, while the critters dutifully chomped the tiny bugs up. The fish in the lake swam happily, and the gheists in the forest warred with newfound resolve.
Their howls would sometimes even reach a hundred miles out, until it finally managed to annoy little Elrhain's ears, making him wish for a pair of noise-cancelling buds.
Outside and down below the mountain, a long line of beasts continuously entered the Lochuir township.
Both the beasts and their masters were weary from their long travels. Their complexion barren while their bodies unclean with sweat, dust, mud and grime.
But even then, Elrhain could easily discern the different styles of their kilts and pelts, not to mention the unique features the dhionne themselves possessed. Some wore hide cloaks, some draped leaf robes. Some had wings of butterflies, and others had tails of tigers.
Each ethnic group—the best way he could rationalize their varied biology in his mind, gathered together, keeping a distance from the others.
They hung swaths of beast skin banners and flags from long sticks, poles, and stone handles, with many totems and symbols painted on them.
Along with their peculiarity, the flags denoted the identity of their tribes, houses, or masters. The stronger groups even had the luxury to flaunt their achievements to others, hanging giant gheist fangs and bones on the poles.
Elrhain noticed another detail about the banners with his extraordinary vision.
The only thing one group’s banner had in common with the others was the large Earthloch insignia, a rising obsidian spire on a background of a lake of blue and mountains of green. They were painted in one of the most eye-catching places, shadowing even the symbols of the dhionne’s own houses.
Other symbols of the Earthloch Siorrakty were also weaved on the dhionne’s attires, burnt onto their beasts of burden’s fur, or even branded on their bodies as sigils.
It denoted their other identity, the one that had made them answer the summons to the Lochuir valleys.
They were the servants, freemen, and nobles loyal to the Earthloch clan.
Most of them travelled from far corners of the vast clan dominion, bringing their families, valuables and food, to tide through what was to come.
Others were called back from all over Uorys Diosca, telling them of the dangers the clan faced and the opportunities to be reaped from it.
A cry of a bird resounded with the flap of wings that followed, prompting Elrhain to lazily turn his head.
Three mountains over, another party of dhionnes mounting fliers—various giant flying gheists, left the peak to the horizon beyond.
「Still counting their numbers?」Someone rocked the wooden stool Elrhain stood on, and he almost had a heart attack.
The boy looked down to see Agwyn’s mischievous smile. He glared at the pigtailed imp and kicked her way, but the little girl snapped her head away faster than his leg with a peal of bell-like laughter.
「It’s not like I have better things to do.」, Elrhain grumbled. 「It’s already been a month since the adults stuffed us in this dull courtyard.」
Agwyn pushed another stool beside him. The little girl huffed as she got on, then breathed in the crisp air that entered through the window.
「Mommy did tell us we’ll be able to go out soon during yesterday’s dinner. They’ve almost sorted out the mess outside. She said from now, the Lochuir entrance will be more organized.」 Agwyn whistled, scanning her eyes over the long line. Something prickled Elrhain’s mind — an inconvenience that appeared every time they shared each other’s senses.
「How many today?」
「About four hundred so far. I bet the number will go over a thousand before nightfall.」 Elrhain counted with his tiny fingers. 「So that makes about twenty thousand since the ritual? I didn’t count the first few days, though, so I can’t be sure.」
「Ey, it’s gonna get more cramped. I don’t like the noise they make at night.」 Agwyn winced.
As if to prove her words, a fight broke out in the middle of the line between two groups. It didn’t take long before even the elderly and children joined in by flinging mud, rocks, and anything they could get their hands on at the opponents.
The watches on duty rushed over and started shouting colourful expletives. Five minutes later, a few young men and women from both groups were beaten black and blue, forcefully bringing an end to the fight.
The watches kept a close guard in the vicinity for a few more minutes, giving the groups a loud earful of threats, which made all of the perpetrators pale significantly, before letting them join the line again.
This was the third dispute since morning.
An episode like this would not refuse any dhionne group entry. Because it was the clan who had called upon them to unite their strengths in the first place. Earthloch needed all the muscle and manpower they could afford for the imminent collapse. What were a few rowdy younglings? They could contribute more if the clan could direct their rage upon the gheists.
Agwyn scrunched up her nose as she witnessed all that, then started biting her nails.
「After you went to sleep yesterday, daddy said it will take a whole cycle for everyone to arrive. But an Uorys Diosca cycle is like, um, three thousand days? At this rate, that’s like three million more dhionne being stuffed inside this one valley.」
「I don’t think so. Wasn’t grandpa debating building more huts and longhouses on other mountains with the big guy? They will probably just expand the residential areas.」
「That’s good. Come to think of it, the clan has two-and-a-half dhionne for every lake, according to Auntie Lilian. Then this degree of immigration won’t continue for long, right?」
Elrhain nodded.
「I reckon the ones living within the borders of the Siorrakty should make up the vast majority of that population. If what Lilian said was right, that’s only two hundred and fifty thousand heads. They should arrive within a season at the current rate. 」
He then pointed to a few eye-catching travellers in the line. They either stood alone or only with a small party. Each had scary-looking weapons and a battle-hardened disposition. The typical dhionne groups usually gave them a wide berth, except the oddly curious children.
「Those are the disc-walkers. They wander all over Uorys Diosca in search of power, fame and adventure. In fact, they do look like adventurers from fantasy video games and RPGs. What do you think?」
Agwyn excitedly nodded her head. 「Do you think we can be one when we grow up?」
But she drooped her shoulders a second later, 「Mommy said the collapse will last for a hundred cycles at the least. Hells, first the courtyard, now this! Is my second life going to be one detention after another?」
「Eh, stop whining. Speaking of a hundred cycles,」Elrhain chided her, then placed a finger on his temples thoughtfully.
「Will we still be alive by then? Well, you will, since everyone’s praising you for all those talents in cultivation thingies and—Wait, wait, I will be too, okay? I can come up with some uber cultivation technique using Earth science that suits me perfectly, so don’t cry!」
After cooing the girl for what felt like hours, she finally unburied her face from her palms. Agwyn quickly wiped the snot and tears away with the hemp of her robe. Her smile was both shy and forced.
These days, Elrhain wondered if Agwyn let her young body dictate too many of her actions. Talking to her was like walking on a tightrope sometimes.
Elrhain coughed to clear his throat before bringing her attention back to the disc-walkers again.
「As I was saying, I bet your father calculated how long most of the disc-walkers would take to return when he said one whole cycle. They first have to learn about the word of the collapse from wherever they were, then make their way back tens of thousands of kilometres by foot or by beast. That reminds me,」
Agwyn’s eyes were still a bit misty and red. But the girl tried hard not to show her inner emotions. She was now peering intently at some Brachiosaurus-like gheists, their heads moving out of the canopy like scrawny shark fins slicing the sea.
「Will the clan close the borders after this cycle?」
Agwyn shook her head. 「I don’t know. But I don’t think so. Daddy said that the Manna-rioghs will go berserk come next summer. That the gheistrums roaming outside will be too dangerous for lone travellers to cross the mountains. So if they can actually make the journey in such conditions, there’s no reason to turn them away.」
Elrhain rubbed his nose. An aroma of roast meat and fruit drifted up with the wind. Some groups were preparing their meals on makeshift firepits.
‘Any disc-walker who can fight their way back is a tremendous asset. Still,’ He tried to guess what kind of meat was being roasted. It smelled like both beef and tuna.
‘I can’t believe we actually caused all of this. Or maybe it was just Agwyn. As much as she likes to deny it, she’s the one who literally received 99.999% of the gifts. Not that I am pushing the blame on her….’
A visage of a friendly old man flashed past Elrhain’s mind at the thought, ‘Grandpa Thundham says it was mainly me though….delusional old man.’
He had a hard time accepting that claim. Most of the Earthloch clan nobles attributed the rift in the sky that night to Agwyn alone, and he somewhat agreed with that sorry lot.
Lilian's clever manipulation shifted the ‘merit’ partially to Elrhain, primarily because of how heated the crowd was during her speech on the night of the ritual. They just wanted to hear good things back then, like a pep talk before the apocalypse.
Elrhain didn’t know how long that diversion would last. People tended to turn merits into faults when things don’t go the way they hoped. They might still attribute the good things to Agwyn just because she was the princess. As for the bad stuff….
A former servant’s child like him, whose family was ennobled under mysterious circumstances, was the perfect scapegoat. He’d been blamed for less in his past life.




Chapter 25 - Summer Starvation

The ritual on that fateful night had turned the lives of all dhionne in the clan upside down. They had to leave behind their ancestral homes, the uncountable memories both good and bad they had with the lands and lakes of their native settlements, to travel to an unfamiliar place hundreds or even thousands of miles away.
The journey wasn’t particularly safe either. A close loved one dying was a genuine possibility.
The noble houses would not have as much say in Lochuir as they did in their own territories. The freemen would have to sacrifice a lot of the ‘freedom’ they or their forefathers toiled so hard to obtain.
Even the servants would gripe at how their safe daily routines got ripped to shreds by two blabbering kids. As ignorant as they were, even with an iota of common sense, they should be able to guess that their lives would only get more complicated from now on.
Almost all servants were but mortal realmers. Ones like Dofnald, who crossed the first circle before adulthood without the resources of a noble house, were few and far between.
High and mighty cultivators could benefit significantly from high-level gheist cores and other elements the collapse would bring. But for the majority of servants? 
They couldn’t even fathom what ‘100 cycles’ actually entailed. So far, the reality of their lives had taught them that they had nothing to do with concepts such as the glory of the clan.
They didn’t have the luxury nor leisure, so most of them never bothered. A day’s worth of food, a simple shelter, and maybe the protection of the master household in times of danger was enough for them to be content in their meagre lives.
Yet from now, they would have to work harder but receive even less in return. It won’t take long for even the dullest of servants to see the unfairness, if Elrhain judged them by similar cases from back on Earth.
However, because they were so used to that unfairness, they couldn’t even complain. 
They were the perfect example of learned helplessness. However,
‘Heck, even if they don’t think it unfair, they will at least feel that something is wrong, right? Even if that’s how it has always been, it has never been this bad.’
Their grievances would fester like a plague within the heart of Lochuir. Elrhain had seen so many of such occurrences leading to unstoppable explosions in his previous life.
In the new dome-towns of the nuclear-wasted areas. In the solitary, coffin-like space colonies on the asteroid belts.
There would be violent riots every few days. Many gangs would sprout out in the destitute, overpopulated settlements like mushrooms after a rain. Public order would have declined to non-existence, and diseases would spread like crazy.
But when Elrhain had asked his mother of the current worsening situation in an unplanned moment of vexation, she beamed a smile so bright it washed away all his gloom. The fair maiden spun him around in the air praising how “Little Rhain is already thinking like a proper chieftain!”
Eluned was a servant, and now she is a noble. So she could fairly represent both sides to certain extents. 
And she did so after placing the pouty Elrhain on her lap and stroking his hair tenderly. For the first time ever, she sang what she thought life in the clan meant to her, hidden opinions she had never spoken before, much to the boy’s surprise.
The nobles were strong. But to them, there could never be enough strength.
The freemen wanted more than freedom; they wanted land and people they could call their own.
Finally, the servants either wanted to quietly live a life without hunger or suffering, leaving all the complex thinking to the nobles. Or they wished to cast away their bound sigils and live the life of the upper class they so envied. Especially the ambitious ones. And it only took one instance of success to plant the seed of ambition in even the most apathetic dhionne farmhand.
With time, more people would triumph in their respective goals. These examples would tell the meek and the unambitious that even they, the traditional losers of the realm, can succeed.
As for those who failed? What proof would they leave behind if they were but bones in the dirt now? They were weak and had overestimated their puny abilities.
They should never have attempted to cross the cavern when they didn’t have feet to walk.
But, 
“We aren’t like them. We are like the successful ones. The newest freeman is even my cousin. Our mothers are sisters, and our feet could not be more similar. If he can do it, so can I!” they would chant day and night. To convince themselves, to trick themselves, to empower themselves. Ultimately, some more would succeed and so on till it became the norm.
The nobles, the freemen, and the servants would forget all their short term worries and be beholden to Elrhain and Agwyn for the long term glory their ritual had so generously bestowed.
Or so Eluned exclaimed with shaking fists and zealous red eyes, her slit pupils burning with the rage of dragons.
…. his mother had been acting strange lately. 
Elrhain still weighed her views against his, though.
Indeed, a quick dispatch of an oceanic realmer would deal with all dissidents. The dhionne were much hardier than humans against diseases too, or curses as they were called here. Unexpected illnesses were rare, and epidemics were often caused because of malicious magical reasons more often than not. Their tribal lifestyle, dietary habits, and cultivation of manna gave them better immunity against things that would be fatal for a human, and clan practices dictated a somewhat more hygienic lifestyle, at least compared to the tribal folks back on ancient Earth.
Another of the discrepancies Elrhain had noticed from what should be expected in such societies, designated pits all over Lochuir to be used as outhouses.
The only ones vulnerable enough to fatal ailments were the children and the elderly. To the dhionne, fate was to be blamed for that.
In the end, the benefits would eclipse the losses a hundredfold.
But whatever reasoning Elrhain could make in his head favouring the positives, his modern values couldn’t wholly ignore the negatives. People would still die. Unique people with hopes and dreams just like him, and he could not simply chalk them off as numbers on a sheet of paper.
The ways of this world were too unfamiliar, obscure, and exotic. He needed more information, lest his worries never abated.
And he knew he wasn’t the only one having such foreboding thoughts.
「Daddy also said something worrisome yesterday.」 Agwyn muttered, a hint of distress in her voice. 「Lochuir might not be able to feed everyone who comes. Grandpa’s hair yellowed even more, and daddy looked so haggard. I’ve never seen them so stressed.」
Her unclenched palms gestured towards an area by Aenraad river, ranging from the tail end to the midsection of the line of dhionne.
Another prick in his mind and Elrhain’s vision focused like a telescope.
The dhionne there were unloading what seemed to be large leafy sacks and makeshift wooden containers full of sun and wind-dried foodstuff, meats, veggies, and fruits.
They all had desaturated brownish colours, with none of the vibrancy or freshness remaining. But the sheer quantity was enormous.
There were at least a few thousand tons there, and this was just the amount the dhionne convoys had brought in today.
Which made what Agwyn shared all the more unbelievable.
「Why? Aren’t the manna-rioghs like fantasy dungeons, seemingly able to spawn monsters out of nothing? The production of gheists will soon go into overdrive, right? No matter how many dhionnes come, the clan should have enough catch to last years, if not decades, just from the usual hunting. Even if, let’s say, each mortal eats about 2 to 4 tons of food a year, not even counting the cultivators.」
「Ellie, gheist meat is poison.」
Elrhain started.
「Seriously? How did I not know that?」
「I didn’t until yesterday either. I always took for granted how much meat we could eat every day. But in reality, our daily dinner, and the feast on the night of the ritual, too, are all luxuries only the highest noble houses can afford. 」
Agwyn twirled a lock of her leafy hair with a melancholic expression. 
「Apparently, most dhionne live on wild fruits and vegetables, and the meat of mortal or low earth level gheists. Since the lower cultivation keeps the toxins in their bodies down. But now, their cultivation will quickly rise because of the overflow of manna. Resulting in the number of safe to eat gheists dwindling alongside.」
The scent of roasted meat once again brushed Elrhain’s nose. But the sight of many tired dhionne carefully preparing a diminishing supply of foodstuff and still happily sharing that portion by portion with their family gave rise to a totally different feeling.
「Even high realmers can’t casually eat gheist meat for long. For gheists above low earth, only a few specific species of exceedingly less population are not poisonous. General gheists only have a small portion of their meat with low enough toxins to be viable as food. Do you know which part that is?」
Elrhain nodded, remembering all the times he had grumbled during their family suppers. The variety of meat was always a lot. But at the same time, it was so bloody lean. Whether fish or bird, Red or white, not one satisfying fatty piece. As if anything other than a sirloin or chicken breast was taboo.
The adults’ reactions to his insensitive grumbling on the topic now made a lot more sense.
「Imagine spending days on a hunt, but you have to throw away ninety to ninety-five percent of the meat. Neither the quantity nor quality is anywhere near enough. It was fine when the hunting areas spanned the whole Siorrakty, but now…」
「Yikes.」
「Exactly.」
Elrhain could only click his tongue. He took in the scenery outside for a few more minutes with a complicated mind as the two lapsed into silence, only the soft breeze and the murmurs down the mountain backdropping their thoughts.
He suddenly climbed down from the stool. The boy walked to the bed and sat down, patting the position next to him. 「Come.」
Agwyn furrowed her brows.
「Just come.」, Elrhain repeated. So the little girl could only roll her eyes, jumping down with a soft thud and scuttling to take the seat beside him.
Elrhain tenderly held her head and laid it on his lap, then started stroking her leafy hair with his six fingers. The ribbon-like filaments felt both rough and silky on his hands.
「You don’t usually think about stuff like this. Tell me what’s bugging you.」
Agwyn flinched, angling her head away.
「You think it’ll be like the Astra Ternus Colonies?」
Agwyn held her breath before exhaling out with a tired sigh. 「These dhionne are refugees, no matter how the adults frame it.」
Elrhain tugged the girl’s ears lightly. 「Last time we… you didn’t have the clout to force the Collective to pay the matter sufficient attention, not until the worse came to pass. Even Mrs Hildebrand had to take into consideration the other political leaders’ standpoints. This time, your parents are the literal kings and queens of this land.」
He felt the girl’s body stiffen up at her past mother’s name, but then she gradually relaxed. Agwyn almost purred under his gentle caress.
「This time, it won’t be the same. Every dhionne, noble or not, will yield to your will. If not yours, then your father’s and your grandfather’s. You can stop the worst case from happening before it even starts. It’ll be okay.」
「Really?」
「Yes.」
Agwyn’s worried eyes finally lost a bit of their distress. She let herself be lost in the comfortable strokes, and a few minutes later, fell silently to sleep.
So she couldn’t see Elrhain’s complicated gaze.
「It’ll be alright.」 He repeated as if to convince himself.
‘Food scarcity, innovations, social stratification, education….’
Elrhain believed he could help deal with these problems, and so many more, to a large degree. He had even planned out a few steps of his enlightenment master plans the days following the ritual.
At first, he was excited. He squealed, thinking of all the possibilities and how he could fundamentally change the way of life and culture of the denizens of this world for the better. 
After all, he’d promised Agwyn ice cream.
‘They’ll eat you alive, this world.’ Sarah’s voice had come out of nowhere, like a ghost haunting him, punishing him for his baseless conceit.
And then, the nightmares started.






Chapter 26 - Roasted with Water and Evil

‘Get out!’ Elrhain jolted up in fright, his hands swiping hard towards an unseen chasing foe, his body covered with sweat even the chilly night wind could not stop.
The boy looked left, and then he looked right. After a brief second of confusion, he sighed in relief when the present came back to him.
A prone form squirmed to his side with a soft groan. It was Agwyn. 
She was suckling on her thumb, deep asleep. Her other hand punched the bed before she muttered something both in Earth Common and Uorian, then whacked his side with a solid thud. 
Elrhain winced, checking her breathing through the pain before confirming she had not woken up. The violence was unintentional.
A few minutes later, he laid down again in hopes that sleep would come. A sweat damped leafy towel now hung by the bar of the bed, and an empty clay cup beside a pitcher by its leg.
But sleep did not come alone.
In Elrhain’s previous life, he created an energy source that had fundamentally changed how the world worked. He and his invention made the planet greener, reducing death in the energy sector by tiers because of how safe it was to operate with its eco-friendly fuel, water.
His device, the single-core hydro annihilator, had pushed forward humanity by centuries in too many technological fields to count. It was something that could only be created with true genius, or so the world thought. After all, who would ever believe the advent of the single-core was ninety percent freak accident and ten percent stitching already established theories together into a Frankenstein of physics, chemistry, and math?
It made deep space exploratory spacecrafts a reality. It helped clean up the ocean of radioactive wastes. It injected steroid-like progress in the asteroid belt colonization plan. 
It made him a billionaire.
For a while, it also gave the Collective military, economic, and political power over the three other nations.
Yet, just as naturally, it had destroyed the existing energy sectors of their recovering world into atomic bits. Millions of people lost their bread earning jobs, with companies reporting credit losses in trillions. Riots like sparks in a brushfire blazed in the Middle Eastern, Siberian, South American, and North Nordic regions, almost heralding the second age of terrorism against the Collective.
These only touched the iceberg of all the harm his invention had harbingered. 
The next five years were one of the most stressful periods of Elrhain’s past life.
“It’s a nuclear reactor in disguise! It will herald another seven hundred years of dark age!” preached the media, the politicians and the jobless workers all around the scattered world.
They then hailed in triumph when radical groups actually tried, and failed, to weaponize his invention into past-reminiscent nuclear bombs. That was all the proof they needed, twisting the event regardless of the result into their own narrative.
Ultimately, the genius invention cost him friendship, trust, love and most of his faith in humanity.
And at the end of his drifting life as a semi-spectating audience of the world, no different from a reader voting for changes in a story on a quest forum, when Agwyn convinced him to try one more time to relive his youthful passion for science, it had cost him his life.
No one wanted to see the arrival of another cleaner, low cost, higher performance energy source. Not when the first one kicked the interests of so many people and factions in the guts before spitting on their tattered remains.
‘This world is different,’ Elrhain’s eyelids slowly drooped. He rationalized his choices by embracing the blackness. 
‘I’m the prince… consort?… but am I, really?’
He’d seen how the other dhionne nobles, including Elder Sonora, spoke of his family. Their west lake faction might bow down to Agwyn’s house outwardly. But, they could never hide the derision that naturally oozed out of their posture and speech when Elrhain or his parents were in the same room. 
They probably didn’t even try.
Fortunately, the big guy and the slug woman didn’t let his trust down, as well as the ever-thoughtful grandpa Thundham. 
He was ninety-nine percent sure that they could shoulder any pressure the haughty blue bloods could throw his way.
But that remaining 1% kept him awake at night. It crept into his psyche and nudged all the insecurities, fear and rotten memories, forcefully lifting up those horrific experiences from his past life to haunt him like vengeful spectres.
‘Don’t break the status quo, Ellie, for your own good. If not, only support what Annie wants to do from backstage. Don’t do anything yourself. Don’t even try.’
‘Dhionne are no different from humanity. At least the old world didn’t have nobility. In this world, it’s the law of the jungle. If anything goes wrong, there will be no courts where you can appeal your case.’
‘Annie, Cyra, Bromwyn, and Thundham aside, will the extended Earthloch family be willing to let you try dubious science crafts when they have no idea what it is even about? Moreover, the nobles make no attempts to suppress their dissatisfaction with you.’
‘As it is, resources run low. The clan may struggle to barely trudge through this collapse. Why should it, then, waste crucial manpower and resources for your made-up non-ritualistic experiments? Such action by the Earthlochs will only offend the nobles further, prove to them of the Siorrakt’s bias towards Siaglas.’
‘The nobles are pushing for Annie to take another fiancée. How long can her family keep them at bay? Which is more important, the nobles’ loyalty or Annie’s feelings? It does not even need saying, when right now unity is the most precious commodity the clan can hope for.’
‘You need achievements. But if you try, and you fail, it might cost you everything! The nobles will get an excuse to act. Those bloody bastards of a hyena and a vulture will never ignore such… a perfect… chance. Mother, father…’
‘I’m just a child… I know nothing about this world….’
A nightmare threatened to unveil its gaping maw once again before the goddess of sleep swatted it away with a mean pout; her jewelled arms beaconed Elrhain into a misty embrace.
“Forget the worries, forget ambition, forget the wrongs in front of you.”
“Just sleep, eat, and play with Agwyn.”
“Play with me, for this is a dream.”
“The disc is a novel, a song, and maybe a game.”
“While for the clan, your knowledge does not matter. That’s why to you, they don’t have a future.”
“Be a bystander, a sightseer. How nice was your last life as a spectator? “
“You were happy then. Weren’t you?”
Weren’t you?
Elrhain’s mind faded to a dusky slumber, with another flavour of dread painting a future darker than even the nightmares, to lull him into a false nirvana. Beneath all that, something warm and fluffy hugged him tightly, as if it was a shining ray of starlight leading him towards salvation.
******
「You know, our clan is more like a tyrannical autocracy than a monarchy.」 Agwyn chirped. The bright morning light coloured her leafy hair a vivid blue as it swayed in the wind from up in Cyra’s arms.
Right now, the two children were being carried by Cyra and Bromwyn up a stone walkway on the Earthloch house’s dweller mountain.
Eluned had been busy with something the past month, running off somewhere with Dofnald before the first light even hit the disc, and coming back all tired and achy in the evening.
Agwyn had asked the couple some very rude and blunt questions in her boundary-less curiosity the first few days.
After some fierce rounds of blushing and flushing, the two adults had constantly apologized to both the children and their in-laws like they had committed some forbidden sin.
In the end, Bromwyn blared their worries off with his jovial laughter, telling them to “do what you must, for that is the way of Earthloch!”
「I see.」
Elrhain replied to the glaring girl, his voice inadvertently laden with indifference. The boy’s mind speculated on other things, such as if his parents were actually having a romantic escapade like Agwyn had insisted, and why his dreams had been so torturous lately.
He didn’t even gawk or comment as Bromwyn carried him past open-aired walkways of ruined architecture, wooden arches that spanned over waterfalls, and hanging bridges lacing on to the mountainside on thick vines falling from the jungle canopy above. 
「Hmph! Doofus.」 Agwyn pouted, her glare turning stinky.
Elrhain waved it away while pinching his nose. He supposed the girl was feeling shy after being coddled to sleep by him the day before.
“Gwyn, stop making faces at Rhain. That’s very impolite.” Cyra chided the little girl. “It is also useless. You need to whip him into shape like I did with your father.”
Bromwyn burst into a cackle, not even denying her.
“Stop teaching her weird stuff!” Elrhain protested; the threat to his tranquil life was enough to bring his distracted mind back. 
Agwyn had been extremely bipolar recently. Who knows what kind of annoying ideas she would hatch with parental permission.
When he saw the two imps, one big and one small, look at each other for a thoughtful three seconds, then giggle at him like creepy twins, he felt a cold premonition shiver down his spine.
‘Happy thoughts!’ Elrhain blew hot air out of his nose before choosing to ignore their silly antics. 
“Big guy, where are we going?”
“We visit the cloistered hall today, my stout champion. It is high time you both meet other dhionne your age. After all, you will need to foster a harmonious relationship early if you are to rule them in the future.”
Elrhain squirmed, his fears threatening to re-emerge at the mere mention of, god forbid, socializing.
“Um, can we do it later? My tummy doesn’t feel so good.”
“My, could the cheeky little Rhain be afraid of strangers?” Cyra barged into their conversation like a pirate of cruel humour. 
“Why, I would never! Where did the poison tongued mini meanie go? Gwyn, you need to be careful. Rhain could be one of those husbands who are all lordly to their wife but shy like fox kits outside.”
“Will you shut up, slug woman?” The sudden rage that boiled in his blood blew away the fears. The vein throbbing on his temple changed from red to purple, and his hands searched for something to throw at the air-headed menace.
He only found Bromwyn’s fuzzy, Viking beard.
“Mommy, it’s okay. I will pwotect Ellie; he can be like widdle fox kit. Kits cute.”
Bromwyn and Cyra stopped in their tracks, their eyes going wide like saucers. Elrhain took in a deep breath before facepalming, his shoulders slumped in defeat.
A few seconds of explosive silence later, the two adults burst into sniggering laughter, with Bromwyn almost dropping Elrhain in a fit of giggles. Servants ran in from all over the place in panic, only to leave again even more confused.
Elrhain was tempted to tug at the big guy’s beard, but concluded it was futile. He couldn’t even muster up enough courage to talk back now, let alone seek revenge. Anything he said would be twisted into a charcoal-fired epic roast by the slug woman and her evil spawn.
But within that moment of shame, somewhere unknown in his heart, he felt a different kind of emotion. Relief.
This was banter. Family banter.
A smile spontaneously crept onto his concealed face.
The worries from the nightmares slowly faded elsewhere, his mind finally finding a semblance of rest despite being wide awake.




Chapter 27 - A Group of Children is Called an Ingratitude

The cloistered hall was an open-aired atrium fashioned from small groves of connected outdoor gardens at the very peak of the mountain. 
It was like the Athenian temple of the old world, The Parthenon, yet many times larger. There was a vast space of green and blue in the middle while towering pillars surrounded it in all directions. 
Thundham was sitting cross-legged on a ledge of stone, a broken pillar which had toppled down, on the far end of one grove. He was speaking with a younger man, one hand lazily poking the dirt with a splintered yellow stick.
‘A relative?’ Elrhain wondered. ‘He looks a lot like the big guy and grandpa.’
Blond hair but no beard, with cryptic violet symbols on his exposed top. The young man was not as stocky as Bromwyn, but his muscles still pulsed with power. He had a giant axe strapped on his back, the bronze-ish edge tied to the crystal rod shimmered sharp in the sunlight.
“Cousin Morys!” Bromwyn shouted with a full-faced grin, walking into the garden in gigantic steps. 
“Glad you could find time despite your watch duties!”
The young man turned towards them, his expression almost as pleasant as Bromwyn’s, if one ignored the clever glint in his eyes. 
“Bromwyn, my brother! Why be so distant? Of course I would find the time.”
One burly and one lean, the two giants clasped their hands into a loud booming shock wave. 
Elrhain would have clamped his ears if the loud sound in such proximity hadn’t left him practically paralyzed.
He was avenged when Cyra huffed between the two brutes and punched them both in the guts after removing Elrhain from Bromwyn’s irresponsible hands.
“Can’t you Kaloxen-heads be more prudent?”
“Argh, s-sister-in-law. As violent as ever I see.” The man, now squatting on the ground, laughed despite the pain visible on his face. Bromwyn, on the other hand, just wobbled for a bit before steadying himself.
Elrhain shot him his meanest glare, making the apologetic giant fidget his fingers.
“What did you say?” Cyra’s voice had the chill of a glacier.
“Nothing! This fool didn’t utter any words, my lady chieftainess.” Her victim cowered. A wise decision.
It was then that Elrhain heard other footsteps, accompanied by the joyous laughter of children coming from the other entrances of the grove.
Dhionne of all ages, having some degrees of resemblance to Bromwyn, Thundham, and even Agwyn, walked in from the other paths opening into the cloistered hall. There were adults, elders, and even kids whom Elrhain definitely did not want to meet. 
About fifty-odd people, making him feel stuffed despite both the large open space and the dhionne’s merry mood.
The laughing, clapping, and boisterous dialogues attracted Agwyn’s attention, too.
‘Great, now she can make some friends.’ Elrhain scrunched up his nose, remembering all the times the little girl made him practice self-introductions and first impressions with her.
She now gawked at each of the newcomers curiously, especially at the fifteen odd kids. While the other side also sent stares their way, their childlike chatter muting to soft whispers.
By then, Cyra had walked to Thundham, sending some slanted glances towards the newly arrived crowd. The elderly man immediately took charge of Elrhain, gently putting him on his lap with a chortle, the polar opposite to his utterly bored expression from before.
“Why the long face?” He booped Elrhain’s nose, “Did the fish-gremlin think of another fun conundrum without grandpa?”
Despite the weird nickname, Elrhain always wondered if Thundham liked him more than Agwyn. 
The Grand Elder adored his own granddaughter a lot, sure. Yet the otherwise straight-faced old man would break into praises whenever Elrhain was with him, his enthusiasm overflowing in their talks.
To be honest, Elrhain actually enjoyed spending time with Thundham more than with Bromwyn, Cyra, or even Dofnald. Not counting Agwyn and his mother, Thundham was the only one who took his opinions seriously, as if they were talking not as a junior and a senior but as peers of equal standing.
The other three were idiots, as far as he was concerned.
“I don’t know if it’s fun, but it’s a conundrum for sure. Do you want to hear it?” Elrhain grabbed Thundham’s beard as revenge for the earlier nose boop, but his voice betrayed his anticipation.
“Well, it is interesting either way. But we can talk all about it later, and we most definitely will!” Thundham replied, “For now, let’s have you and Gwyn meet your house brothers and sisters. Sometimes, it’s better to mingle with children your own age than always keeping an old man like me company, no?”
With that, old Thundham cleared his throat, drawing the attention of the clamouring mob.
Elrhain didn’t even have the chance to deny his absolutely preposterous proposition and could only sulk while biting his lower lip.
Alas, he could not escape the unavoidable. So with an annoyed groan, he turned his sceptical eyes towards the dampening chatter.
He saw some of the children scrambling to hide behind their parents the moment Thundham made a sound. The younger ones peeked out with big glossy eyes, while the older kids put on a brave front, standing at attention with chests puffed like little soldiers.
‘Kids.’ Elrhain mused, thinking how fun it might be to pick on them. ‘This is how kids should really be.’
“Morys, Cadwell, Meridith, and everybody else,” Thundham spoke; he had their undivided attention. 
“I am delighted you all could come, even with the steadily mounting duties of the house and clan. For those who could not, such as cousin Croneira, relay my understanding to them after the gathering so that they do not fret. Clan matters are to always be put first before my selfish irrationalities.”
“Grand Elder, enough of the formality! We are all blood family here.” A homely woman with midnight black skin piped, the dhionne around her nodding in agreement, “You didn’t actually think we would give up the chance to meet our future chieftain and chieftainess, did you? The ones not here simply don’t know when to relax. Isn’t that right?”
A loud cheer was her reply. 
“I blame brother Bromwyn!” Morys continued where the woman left off. “He had the gall to keep them hidden away like goldfur rodents hide their treasured nuts. If not, we could have called for a proper house banquet ages ago. This is an unforgivable abuse of his chiefly authority, and I call for punishment! Let him not return today until the aged fruit saps make him faint!”
The cheering stormed up a notch, and Elrhain wondered if he could join in on forcing Bromwyn through this… punishment.
“Well, there were good reasons, I assure you.” Thundham laughed. “The blessing this time should tell you of that, at least. But I admit, I have delayed this encounter long enough.”
He then stood up, placing Elrhain on the ground with a last pat on the boy’s head. Agwyn quickly squirrelled her way beside him, waving ta-ta to her mother.
“Elrhain, Agwyn. These good people are your uncles and aunts. Grandpas and grandmothers.” Thundham spoke gently. “The little ones are your cousins. They will be the pillar of the main house of our Earthloch Siorrakty, your closest allies, and most importantly, your dearest of friends. So how about you two spend the rest of the day getting to know them? I’m sure the last month was a bore for ones such curious as yourselves, stuffed inside that one courtyard.”
Elrhain rolled his eyes, not even deigning Thundham with a response.
***
“Is it true that the ancestors have eleven legs and a hundred and nineteen eyes?”
“Were the spirits scary? Did they try to eat you? Are spirits tasty?”
“Are you already at peak mortal, heiress Agwyn? My momma told me you are! Are you?”
The moment Elrhain and Agwyn were left behind alone with the flock of children, they swarmed the two like a landslide of nosiness before flooding them with an avalanche of questions.
One adult, the dark-skinned homely woman named Meredith, had led the kiddy group down a side path that opened up inside a beautiful garden of blooming lilac flowers. The cracked stone floor, the fresh grass, and the glistening pond in the middle were reminiscent of the picnic parks back on Earth, like the one where they found the….kitten?
Elrhain shook away the ridiculous thought and looked around. The large pillars could still be seen all around, proving that he was currently inside the same humongous, cloistered hall in Lochuir, not a park in Bern.
Meredith then went back after telling the group to get along, and that lunch would be served in a few hours.
‘Cursed archaic society!’ Elrhain complained inside, the smell of roasted meat already tickling his nose. Judging by the direction of the scent, the adults in the previous garden already had food served for them. No doubt because of some house rule that the filial young must not dine before the old.
He could think of no other reason for such blatant age discrimination. That, and maybe the adults will discuss clan matters a child should not be privy to.
‘Whatever.’ Elrhain clicked his tongue, bringing his mind back to the current predicament.
Without adult supervision, the kids let entirely loose, trying to get along as bloody hard as they could.
Gone were the fake displays of discipline and fear of the Grand Elder. Out came their hyperactivity that knew no bounds and had no bottom line.
It reminded Elrhain of exactly why he both hated and loved dealing with kids. 
On the one hand, they made him feel suffocated with their unending questions about everything, all touchy and grubby as kids tend to be, before backtracking to ask the same questions again and again.
On the other hand, their absolute purity and innocence were among the few reasons Elrhain even kept a tiny bit of faith in humanity hidden in his subconscious mind. Children could be taught, while adults rarely learned.
Right now, he absolutely hated it.
Elrhain tried to push Agwyn in front of him to shield him from the peril, but the girl was at least ten times stronger than him.
She pulled an excellent switcheroo, hiding behind Elrhain like a bashful kitty. 
Reluctantly, Elrhain could only face the twinkling eyes, childlike volcanic energy and untoothpasted breaths with the expression of a martyr.
But right before he pretended to fall over faking a heat stroke, an older kid with massive wings broke up the army of noisy chipmunks.
“Break it up! Come on now. Yes, I am talking to you, Cati. Quit pulling on the heir’s robe this instant!”
““Okaaaaaay~ lord Busyfish!””
“It’s Vesiphis!” The boy yelled, and the rest giggled, at last giving Elrhain and Agwyn some room to breathe.
Elrhain realized his legs were wobbly. Agwyn was actually supporting him from behind this whole time, not just using him as a wall to block the onslaught.
「Ey, thanks…」
「Don’t mind it!」 
Elrhain saw her rub her two tiny hands together. Strangely…Degenerately.…
「These kids are pretty interesting, right?」
「Girl, stop licking your lips! Are you a cougar?」
「How rude! They are just cute, is all. I just wanna be friends with them. I still love you the most!」
Elrhain rolled his eyes for the nth time that day. 
‘I should tell the big guy to get her a pet. Alleigh’s too big to curb her maternal instincts.’ He grimaced. ‘Dammit, her desires from our past life keeps leaking. At this rate….’
Elrhain looked at the children with a strange gaze, recalling all the tabloid articles he read in his last life that warned how many a time, desperate spinsters resort to committing even the most gruesome of crimes to just fill the void of being childless.
Sure, many of them were sensationalism. But at least one out of those hundreds of thousands should have been true. 
Right?
Agwyn picked up on the thought and stepped on his foot. Elrhain wanted to cry out but held himself back, seeing the winged boy suddenly bow down in front of him clumsily. The bat-like wings draped over his body, white and furry and black and leathery.
The tattoos on them resembling Agwyn’s in design, and his chalk-white skin like her’s too.
“My Name is Vesiphis Cadwell Earthloch, son of the hunt leader Cadwell, the Fanged Eye of the Shire, and the chieftain’s closest advisor! It is my greatest honour to at last meet you, my heir and heiress.” 







Chapter 28 - Prejudice in Conclusion

Vesiphis, in Elrhain’s amused eyes, gave off the cool ‘butler-knight’ feeling straight down to his vampiric wings. The clumsiness itself gave the whole thing a depth like no other.
“Hewwo!” Agwyn waved her tiny hands. “I’m Agwyn. You guys can call me Gwyn!”
「Aha! The old cow makes her move, at last, aiming for the sweetest grass in the meadow! 」
「Stop it, you!」 The little girl threatened to step on his foot again before urging. 「Hurry up and introduce yourself. He looks uncomfortable kneeling like that.」
「Fine.」 Elrhain reluctantly agreed, a part of his mind still hoping to avoid direct verbal contact.
“I’m Rhain. Nice to make your acquaintance, I guess. You can stand up now.”
Vesiphis somehow managed to bow once more while kneeling, then stood up, dusting his evidently magical robes. The painted runes on them shined silver in the sunlight. 
And with him as a start, the rest of the children also remembered that they, too, had forgotten the crucial greetings. 
So one after another, with the enthusiasm of a school of dolphins, they declared their names, lineage, and everything else they could think of.
It was clear as day that the kids had practised this same routine before, probably unwillingly and forced by their parents. Perhaps that was precisely why they fumbled so much, even if their missteps made them all the cuter, leaving a deeper impression than just textbook courtesies.
Elrhain admitted that the cacophony of ‘Oofs’ and ‘Owies’ with each clumsy bow and bitten tongue was music to his ears.
‘Is this what grandpa meant when he said fun?’ Elrhain grinned. Certainly, this was entertainment that even money couldn’t buy.
He was even tempted to abuse his power as an heir, to order each kid to start over every time they flopped. 
But after much deliberation, he decided against it.
Because unfortunately, Agwyn was there right beside him, clapping cheerfully, encouraging each child as they plodded through their klutzy introductions.
That, and perhaps Bromwyn was right. Forging a deeper bond with his house siblings was better than needlessly antagonizing them via bullying.
He would do that later, after he had hoodwinked these kids into an unbreakable loyalty. 
‘Children. How hard can it be?’ He mused, purposely overlooking the fact that they had done his knees wobbly just a few minutes ago. That was definitely because he was caught off guard, he assured himself.
By then, the introductions had just about finished. 
There was one Cati, a sunny little girl with three eyes. There was also a Cadough, who had a tail like a hound’s and paws like a bear-man. And Dyfed, with his sclera-less tiny black eyes and thorn-tipped vine hair.
There was a Howell who loved to fish for food and treasure in the Sagathan lakes, a Cled who could jump the highest with his satyr's legs, and a Jesta, whispering in a voice that would make even an oriole blush in envy.
Siani was the only one who had experience hunting a gheist alone, even though she was barely four cycles old. While Eudav and Arfon aimed to be shamans like their parents when they grew up, a rune-scriber and spirit-teller.
The youngest, even younger than Elrhain and Agwyn, was little Ysbail with her giant watery eyes, midnight-black skin and pearl-white tattoos going from her forehead till the tip of her tiny devil tail. 
Olwina, the third eldest, could eat toxic gheist flesh raw without any side effects; her family masters in the ways of venom and poison. Ariana, the second eldest, was objectively the prettiest girl in the cohort. Even when she was fighting with Olwina after calling her eating habits gross, she managed to pull the poison girl’s hair out with grace.
Finally, the one who broke off their fight was Efa Maddocks Earthloch, a girl with a mean glare and meaner spider legs jutting out of her waist. She was the coolest too, and Agwyn, for some reason, wanted to give her a hug.
Each with their own strange features and skills, the kids were all apparently cousins of said drooling Agwyn, part of the same extended bloodline.
‘Evolution, what the flip did you do in this floating disc?’
Elrhain shook his head, then went over their names in his mind one more time. Because for the first time in his life, he was sure he could commit them to memory instead of immediately forgetting, unlike his past self.
One face to go with one unique appendage. They were like that language learning software back home, matching one word with one picture to memorize them more straightforwardly.
What helped more was the distinct lack of judgement in their eyes. Only curiosity. A far cry from the scions of the nobles he and Agwyn were forced to meet this past month.
‘Guess they are not so bad after all. Maybe I don’t even need to hoodwink them. I mean, why should I purposefully make enemies-’
“Hey, um, Lord Rhain? I heard your mammy and pappy were servants?”
‘You know what? I don’t wanna deal with this right now.’ He shoved his previous thoughts away and was about to bolt in the other direction when his sleeves were grabbed by Agwyn, stopping him in his tracks with an ugh.
He glared at her, and she winked back, not letting go. She then gestured with her chin towards Siani, who had asked the previous question. 
Elrhain grudgingly looked at the tiny huntress and saw no malice in her eyes, only the innocence of novelty.
‘Ah…’,
He blushed, reproaching himself. He had jumped to the conclusion that was both mistaken and unjust to the reptile tailed huntress. Elrhain had always thought he was better than that. But apparently, he wasn’t.
So he fidgeted, answering the eager girl’s inquiry with the intention to apologize.
“Yes, my mother was a herb tenderer. While My father was a simple hunter, I suppose. Before the clan let them make a homestead, granting them Reanakty.”
“I-Is his name Dofnald?”
The moment Elrhain nodded, Siani squealed like a pig on psychedelic mushrooms, grabbing his hands to her chest with glitters overflowing in her big round eyes.
“Can I meet him? Please? Pretty please! I’ll give you the Panena Rabbit’s foot I found the other day!”
Siani took one step forward, and Elrhain took two back. 
‘This is worse than prejudice!’ He was speechless, but screamed internally. ‘I change my mind! I really don’t wanna deal with this now at all, for Collective’s sake!’
It wasn’t until Vesiphis again came to the rescue by head-locking the crazed girl that Elrhain let out a sigh of relief. He hid behind Agwyn the moment his hand was free, peering warily at Siani. While Agwyn, very uncharacteristically, glared at the little huntress with ten times more vitriol.
“Forgiveness, my lord, for this demented girl’s behaviour.” Vesiphis said, twisting Siani’s head in a fatal angle, “I will be sure to discipline her after this.”
Elrhain’s face paled.
“Okay, yes, I forgive her. I think you are killing her, though.”
“Haha, heir, I see you too have a sense of humour. An admirable quality, just as my lord father had praised before.” Vesiphis, let go of the girl, who dropped down on all fours, wheezing. Her lizard tail swinging left and right weakly. “But you need not worry about this crazy brute. She will live even if you twist all the bones in her body a few times around.”
The crazy brute coughed, glaring up with tears in her eyes.
“I’ll remember this, Busyfish!” Siani growled, the bit Vesiphis’ leg making the boy wince.
In response, Vesiphis just kicked her hard in the guts, “Silence, fool! How many times have I told you not to creep other people out! You give hunter’s a bad reputation.”
Agwyn, coming to some decision, finally decided to join in on the conversation. Elrhain saw none of the ferocity that was there on her face a few seconds ago.
“Wow, Siani. Are your bones that stwong?” She asked, squatting down before the prone hunter girl.
“*cough* Of course!” Pride laced Siani’s reply. She struggled to stand up while wiping the saliva from her mouth.
“That’s so cool. Can I twist them a few times?”
‘This vindictive old hag.’ Elrhain facepalmed, while Siani went pale.
“I-It still hurts, so perhaps no?” 
“Pwetty pwease?”
Elrhain couldn’t watch anymore and pulled Agwyn away by her ear. The girl pouted hard while still boring Siani with her eyes.
Finally, she slapped her lips, asking, “By the way, why do you want to meet Ewwie’s Daddee?”
The mention of Dofnald injected newfound strength into the panicky huntress as her eyes once again shone with pink and red.
“I heard so much about him from me mammy. They were in the same hunter squad in the shire before mammy broke through oceanic, ya see. Comrades in arms.” Siani started squirming like a worm, “Why, I heard he has a face of a deep-sea pearl and the smile of a million rays of sunshine.”
“… Oh.” Agwyn gaped, while Elrhain finally figured it out. This crazy chick had a crush on his pops!
Siani continued, “My mammy was also a servant before pappy started courting her. She told me so many stories of when she use’ta hunt wild gheists for the house in the deep forests by the shire. How lord Dofnald jumped in front of a rabid pack of Racadgers to save a damsel in distress. How he gave up a chance to marry into the Sabhalan house, not even glancing at their dowry of oceanic elixirs, for he was loyal only to his love until the very end!”
“Ohhhhh!” Agwyn’s tiny face lit up as the hunter girl kept on spewing rainbows about his dad, and Elrhain’s face got darker and darker.
“Wike the stories?” Agwyn asked, her left hand dramatically covering her mouth.
Siani nodded, looking like she was about to faint. “Exactly like the stories of yore. To give up life and power fer his one eternal maiden, not caring the jeers and fingers. To transcend worldly desires in the true name of love. To take….”
If second-hand embarrassment could kill, Elrhain reckoned he’d be dead by now. Ten agonising minutes later, amidst the exclamations of all the kids, counting Agwyn, he, at last, stomped the ground heavily while yelling.
“Okay! I get it, geez. It’s so weird to say all that about other people’s fathers, you know!”
Agwyn, who was egging Siani on, glowered. But the rest of the kids nodded.
Siani snapped out of her reverie and slapped her own cheeks hard. But then she thought something deeply for a few more seconds before asking, “So, can I meet him?”
“Nope.”
“Whyyy?!”
“Father doesn’t like talking with girls other than mother.”
Thud.
Siani once again kneeled on all fours, sobbing violently. 
“Wah wah wuuuu!”
But that was no longer Elrhain’s problem.
He let Agwyn comfort the girl while asking Vesiphis a question that had been bugging him for a while.
“Lord… Vesiphis?”
“Vesiphis is fine, and you are the lord here, my lord.” The winged boy beamed him a smile. “Father will have the skin on my back if he hears you calling me that.”
‘Damn, no child protection laws, then. Well, this guy did kick Siani without a hint of remorse.’ Elrhain’s gaze turned complex at the revelation. Well, honestly, he had been shocked at how smart the kids here seemed compared to the adorable crybabies back on Earth. Mentally, Siani was aged three or four.
But while the endless coddling and favourable social situation in the Collective let the kids grow up as naive, pampered, dumb, and lovably cute as they could, here, the tribal society forced them to mentally mature earlier.
Elrhain snorted at the thought, then pointed at a boy leaning on a pillar on the other side of the garden, moving back to the matter at hand. 
“So, who is the kid over there with the… moving shadows?”
Elrhain had noticed the boy long ago, who could be the cover of an edgy goth magazine just by disposition alone, while the others were fumbling with their introductions. It was hard not to, when the boy in question threw Elrhain a frown and Agwyn a… something, before walking away. 
He donned a black robe with a white sword hung to his back, a head of orchid-black hair over his ash-white skin, and black irises within a speckless white sclera. He was staring up at the sky with his back resting against a small pillar, his arms crossed with one leg kicking against the stone.
Sharp nose, symmetric slanted eyebrows. A gaze so melancholic it could pierce straight into a neighbourhood mother’s heart. 
If not for one ruby-like horn on his head, and shadows that swayed like Lovecraftian tentacles, Elrhain would say this kid was the most human-like dhionne he had yet to meet.
Even the faded tattoos on his face could pass off as standard in the goth circles back on Earth.
‘I’m willing to bet my whole figurine collection that this is a dude with difficult issues. Neat.’
“Oh, him.” Vesiphis’s ever-present smile cracked, but just a little. 
“He is uncle Morys’s son, Cadfael Morys Earthloch. He’s a quiet soul. Doesn’t talk with us much either, always training with that sword of his. The adults always tell the other kids to be more like him.”
Elrhain nodded again in approval. But not at Cadfael. At Vesiphis. 
The winged boy would even come to the defence of someone clearly being intentionally rude, considering the noble customs of this clan as demonstrated by Vesiphis himself earlier.
Not that Elrhain minded. He simply appreciated how a seven cycle old could be more mature than some teenagers.
“Morys, is that the uncle with the giant axe?”
“Yes. Lord Morys, just like the lord chieftain, is at the cusp of breaking through to the sky. In my humble opinion, they both owe a lot, as do we, to you and the heiress for the fortuitous collapse. Alas, if not for uncle Morys’s past… No, I shan’t speak of that. It should be something cousin Cadfael or uncle Morys shares with you themselves.”
“Eh, come on!”
“No, it infringes on their privacy.”
“Tsk, what a bore. Wasn’t I the lord here?”
Vesiphis smiled uneasily but was steady in his position.
Elrhain clicked his tongue, but in reality, he respected the kid even more now. First impressions often lie, but no matter how mature Vesiphis acted, his actual mental maturity should be near a six or seven-year-old human’s. Yet, he could reign in his desire to tattle tale.
That was really something.
Elrhain was willing to put Vesiphis’s name on his ‘High credibility’ list. Give him the benefit of the doubt.
So he didn’t bother the uneasy kid anymore.
Elrhain was just about to go back to Agwyn and ask her why she was arm-wrestling with the others, when a cold mist voice called out to him from behind.
“Hey, you.”
Elrhain stopped mid-turn, his eyes meeting with two black voids.
Cadfael had somehow walked up to them without making a single sound, and now stood only a few paces away with his chin up high and a half-smile masking his stoic face.
The boy’s unblinking eyes narrowed, demanding,
“Why are you so weak?”




Chapter 29 - One Thing After Another

Cadfael stood there like a monolith. The shadows under his feet ominously swayed in all directions. His unshining eyes never broke contact with Elrhain's, his pupils never quivering, like the shadows in a starless night.
Dispassionate, yet regal.
Before, he looked like a gloomy loner, sulking on why his life was so miserable. Now, he had a devilish bearing Elrhain couldn't put his finger on.
His body oozed a kind of dominance and disregard for everything he did not acknowledge. Unlike Elder Sonora's, Cadfael's pride came not from impertinence but from confidence.
Elrhain stood in silence, his head tilted to the side in confusion.
The wind whistled between them, blowing the summer leaves up in a small tornado, which soon lost its strength and scattered apart, leaving no proof of its fleeting life.
One second, two seconds, and soon twenty seconds passed.
Vesiphis jerked his head from Elrhain to Cadfael and then to Elrhain again and again like a sheep with seizure, his signature smile cracking under some gravity only he could feel.
Cadfael waited for Elrhain's response without further words, yet his eyes narrowed even further.
'What the bloody fark?'
Elrhain eyed Cadfael up and down as if the boy were a loon in an asylum exhibition, before walking back towards Agwyn again. The girl had just crushed Cadough, who now whined to the side with drooping paws and tail. That looked far more interesting than the drama the goth guy was souping up.
…only to stop again when Cadfael's indescribably hollow voice rang right beside his ear. 
"Hmph."
He jolted his head away in fright, almost tripping because of the shock. But Cadfael hadn't moved. Only Vesiphis stood behind, following him with a perplexed expression.
"I asked you a question, heir consort." 
Cadfael's voice had a strange twang to it. Immature like children should be. But cold as if he had nothing more to see in this world.
Elrhain scratched his head, wondering what the guy's problem was. 
'First Siani, now this bloke. Why do kids have to be so aggravating? Can't they just play cute and be good?'
He then remembered his own actions the past three cycles and the few times he had made Cyra actually cry.
Elrhain couldn't help but laugh at the memories, 'I'll have my revenge for today soon, slug woman!'
Cadfael found offence in that laugh.
"So you won't even give an excuse for wasting so much clan resources? Those were enough to rise five loyal warriors to Earthen, while you?" If the contempt was hidden before, this time, Elrhain could taste it in that monotone voice.
'Let it go, Ellie. He's just a brat. You, are an adult.'
So he nonchalantly replied, shooing his hand at Cadfael, "Yeah, yeah. Whatever you say." before walking away for the third, and hopefully final time. All this turning around was making him hungry, so he was in no mood to humour a self-entitled whippersnapper.
Elrhain could see Agwyn stomp towards him with puffed up cheeks. She looked like she was in an even worse mood.
'Maybe she's hungry too?' 
Elrhain felt the prick in his mind. 'Ah, she's been listening in. Some occupational habits are hard to forget, I suppose.'
"Go on. Walk away, coward. Three cycles, not even a hundred specks lighted. I'll see how long the heiress and granduncle tolerate your incompetence." Cadfael shook his head. It was evident that he lost interest.
Something Elrhain was happy to see if not for his final few comments.
"Should’ve stayed a servant like your mother.”
“Cousin Cadfael! There is no need to speak like that to family.”
“I speak only the truth to our heir, no, heir consort, cousin.” Cadfael sounded positively repulsed as he uttered the last two words, even though his face remained apathetic.
“Do the clan and yourself a favour, consort. Don’t aim above your abilities. A caretaker or herb tenderer like your mother would suit you quite well, and you can still contribute to Earthloch without wasting our resources that way .”
Cadfael’s shadows suddenly squirmed violently, lashing out on the ground plane like hooks aiming for prey that wasn’t there. A pressure spread out in all directions threatening to squeeze all other shadows to death. 
Vesiphis, whose wings outstretched to their entire span in response, swiftly stood in front of Elrhain to block the shadowy pressure in its tracks.
Elrhain, on the other hand, slapped his forehead in exasperation. He kicked a pebble by his feet away as he was forced to turn around for the third, or was it fourth time within five minutes. 
Even a Buddha would get mad if a rascal kept pestering him, not to mention a cranky old-man-at-heart like him.
In the meanwhile, the showdown between the two cousins—one clad in white and the other in black, went on for a few more tense seconds before Cadfael exhaled deeply, speaking in a much gentler tone, 
“We can’t afford to entertain inepts like you in the collapse. Take my advice, consort. You won’t last a single day in the wild with such weak resolve. Cultivation just isn’t for individuals like you.”
Elrhain, at last, felt a vein throb on his temples that he could not ignore. He’d just wanted to live and let live. But noooo, this kid not only insulted his mother but even had the audacity to tell him what to do. 
The first he could forgive. He was not above the classic yo momma jokes when he was at this brat’s equivalent age.
But the second? 
‘Okay, you gloomy fart face. You want insults? I was moulded in playground pettiness.’
Elrhain tapped the taller Vesiphis’s wings while apologizing to all adult sensibilities he’d still retained, before switching his psyche to the worst, small-minded, vindictive part of himself. His brain went overdrive thinking what would piss off a swaggering snub-nose with more pride than was healthy.
Then, he remembered all the ancient period drama re-enactments he’d binge-watched while he was lazing away, and a downright vulgar grin covered his face. Of course, he changed back just as quick.
Fark logic, and to hell with reasoning. Politeness was long thrown out of the window, and only hot sauce remained flowing in his bloodstreams.
When Vesiphis looked back at him, he pointed at Cadfael with his sixth finger.
“Is he always this rude?”
Vesiphis sighed, shaking his head. But this time, he didn’t try to defend Cadfael, which made Elrhain approve of the winged boy’s morals even further. 
Shooting Vesiphis a curt, “Cool,” he, at last, directly replied to Cadfael, 
“Do I know you?”
Cadfael managed to show an on-point bewildered derision, even with that impassive face of his. Elrhain almost applauded how the kid could mix and mash so many haughty expressions with minimum body language.
“So you are weak in both manna and memory? Cousin Vesiphis wastes his breath on you.” 
Cadfael shook his head dismissively. This time it was he who wanted to leave, but-
‘Oh no you don’t, arschloch.’ 
…his steps were interrupted by a long, drawn-out sigh from Elrhain.
It had twenty excruciating seconds of eye rolls, throaty groans, an ‘Ew’ face and a multitude more scientifically proven ticks guaranteed to piss others off.
“So you were eavesdropping on our conversation?” The disgust on his voice leaked out so much that even Vesiphis started backing off. It was a murky, gross kind of disgust. Not like Sonora’s or Cadfael's, but like when one stepped on dog crap or accidentally saw a snot-nosed kid's gross snot-nosed picture while scrolling down social media.
It hurt people’s souls, not minds.
Vesiphis whispered with no small amount of shivers in his voice, ‘That’s what you get mad at? Not the insults?’
Cadfael didn’t actually change his expression much. Only the hint of incredulity swept past his eyes. Yet the twitching of his fingers told another story.
It told Elrhain that the iron was hot. So,
“Creep.” 
He spat, spittle flying in every direction. The gusts of wind around them seemingly stilled in their own shock.
The children's laughter muted into the backdrop, as that word hung in the air, echoing time and time again until finally, it hit the two others like sledgehammers.
Vesiphis’s eyes widened like balloons. He gasped and covered his mouth with his hand. Cadfael’s face, on the other hand, finally showed a concrete reaction.
Its stone exterior broke down bit by bit, and the ever-swaying shadows under him crackled like thunder.
He looked absolutely scandalized.
The boy’s faced blushed violet, his upturned chin finally lowered, with a visible electric shiver going through his body.
Just when Elrhain thought he would burst like a ripe tomato, Cadfael’s enraged visage eerily morphed back into a deadpan poker face. 
It reminded Elrhain of one of those videos where a Buddha’s face would change into an Asura’s, but in reverse.
Honestly, he was a bit spooked right now. Maybe he had misjudged Cadfael’s humiliation tolerance?
*thud*
The enraged boy in question took a step forward, and the dust rose from the stone floor, staying in the air as if gravity was just a suggestion. His eyes went from black to red, then pink, and finally lilac.
The shadows rose up from the ground spewing swordlike tendrils, while his hand reached for the actual sword behind, about to unsheathe it-
When a sudden pfft barged into the heated confrontation, followed by a continuous bell-like giggle.
Agwyn, the voice behind the cute fit, was literally laughing down on the ground twenty paces behind him, punching the stone floor repeatedly with one hand and trying to cover her mouth with the other.
Elrhain heard Cadfael snort, with the swishing sound of shadows also retreating. He sighed in relief, but his sceptical mind picked something strange in that snort.
It sounded… ‘Shy?’
He shook his head to get rid of the ridiculous thought.
By now, the other children had also noticed Agwyn’s bizarre behaviour and gathered around to see what was so fun.
The sounds returned, and the wind began to flow again.
***
Elrhain dusted Agwyn’s fancy frock as she stood up, her face still cramping from time to time.
「I didn’t think it was that funny though? 」 Elrhain asked.
「It wasn’t. But his face was sooo weird. It reminded me of those times when Miramarja opened the fridge all excited, only to find her pudding gone!」
「…I was hungry, okay?」 Elrhain averted his gaze.
Agwyn puffed up her cheeks, trying hard not to laugh, 「Forget it. Why’d you rile him up so much? You know the only thing you can beat in a fight in this hall is the food that’s being roasted, right?」
Elrhain snickered, 「You think I’m dumb? I would have screamed murder if he went any further. And Vesiphis was about to step in too. Besides, the adults are only two minute’s walk away. I don’t believe those cultivators wouldn’t hear all the magical sound effects from this close, or let us young’ns handle the matter ourselves when it comes to violence.」 He then rubbed his throat and mimed crying for help.
「Eh, I guess so.」 Agwyn twirled a lock of her hair, 「Infighting in the clan has always been limited to words unless it’s Mommy, Auntie Lilian or Grandpa who’s involved.」 
Elrhain involuntarily smiled at that, remembering Elder Sonora’s black and blue face when he was fleeing the courtyard the other day.
Agwyn abruptly brought her eyes closer to his face, almost giving him a heart attack. She asked with a malicious squint, 「Do you think Auntie Lilian will beat that jerk up too if I go cry to her about how he “bullied my Ewwie”?」
「Don’t bother. It’s our loss if they think you’re a bratty princess—though your father might actually like that. But it might piss off the other adults and give the kids a wrong impression, even if Cadfael gets the living daylight beaten out of him. Speaking of whom,」
The brooding boy seemed to have regained his edgy bearing at the sight of Agwyn. He approached the two with a kind of purpose as they whispered sweet nothings to each other.
Most of the other kids watched on curiously, while Vesiphis’s eyes clouded over with another nervous twitch. The eldest really was having a tough day today, one shenanigan after the other. Not to mention Cati and Ysbail hanging from his wings right now, screaming some cryptic song about mud fights.
Olwina and Ariana, who were the next eldest after Cadfael, nodded to each other before blocking the goth’s path. They also noticed something was wrong with the boy, not to mention his earlier outburst, which definitely didn’t go unseen. 
But Agwyn pushed them both aside and confronted the shadowy menace herself, her chubby arms crossed before her puffed up chest.
She had just taken a deep breath, about to unleash a machine gun of lisping, slurring expletives, when Cadfael kneeled down on one knee like a medieval knight to absolutely everyone’s surprise. 
He placed the now unsheathed sword horizontally on the ground, gripping it with his right hand, exclaiming,
“Cadfael Morys Earthloch greets the divine inheritor of our great clan.”
「Uh-oh, 」 Elrhain whispered to Agwyn through the link, realization painting his voice, 「I know why this guy is so pissed at me.」
Agwyn gulped, shaking her head in denial.
「P-Perhaps he is just dramatic because he didn’t introduce himself with the other’s earlier? 」
Cadfael crushed her hope with his following words.
“The saviour of mine faith and purpose, you have given hope of salvation to me and all mine clan’s subjects by the great tide of fortune you have summoned forth from the ungenerous heavens.”
He then raised the sword up high, holding the pommel at his forehead while the tip pointed at the Sohwl above, the sharp bone edge glinted in the midday suns like solid light.
“Accept mine pledge of gratitude, for ever if I cannot repay you today. I vow to cut down all foes, remove all parasites, and forge a path beyond the circles to protect yours honour with the spirits acknowledged, if mine wish is to be granted in the unsettled future, and the collapse hath been conquered!”
With that, he snapped down the pommel to his heart as a blood-red streak was left behind on his forehead.
The boy’s eyes now looked straight at Agwyn’s. His gaze serene and his blood-dripped face calm, as if what he had just said was but another utterance.
But his hands, oh his hands, gripping the sword trembled like a rickety wooden tower during an earthquake.
A few seconds of painful silence followed, which the other kids then shattered hysterically in their shocked howls —except Cati and Ysbail, who just looked confused. 
Vesiphis’s mouth, on the other hand, was so wide that he didn’t even notice the insect that flew in.
The other’s didn’t notice either. Neither did they notice the tips of Cadfael’s ears blushing an intense red or the heated possessiveness in his sizzling gaze.
They didn’t notice Agwyn’s face turn a million degrees colder with every word of Cadfael’s or her tiny fingers twitching like they wanted to strangle something to death.
But Elrhain did. And in the advent of what could only be a love rival trying the steal the cooked rice from his mouth, he laughed with absolute levity.
‘Haiya, I wish this world had popcorn.’




Chapter 30 - Price the Prideful Don’t Pay

"No!" 
Agwyn's voice came out with a sharp thorny yowl, like a kitten with its tail walked on. She took a step back, making not even an ounce of effort to hide her disgust.
Cadfael snapped his head up with eyes flashing in disbelief. 
"My heiress-" he tried to frantically speak, but a loud shout interrupted him.  
"You shameless curr!" 
It was Vesiphis. The winged boy pointed his fingers at the kneeling Cadfael, his hands shaking madly and face twisted into a rage.  
"You-you-you are out of your mind! You!" He kept stuttering as if he could not find the right words. But that did not pose a problem in conveying his very real, very negative emotions.
Elrhain whistled, watching the drama thicken. His eyes met Agwyn's, who had also lost her earlier composer despite her resolute front just now.  
She looked at him unsure, and afraid.  
Elrhain winked at her, giving her the solace she so needed. The little girl huffed in relief, scampering back to his side and hugging his arms.  
In the meantime, Vesiphis’ condemnation of Cadfael had come to a full-blown argument.
"This has nothing to do with you." Cadfael slowly enunciated, his posture stoic and his white sword now pointed downwards.
"Do you know what the Pledge of Red Fate means? You dare to even attempt a mimicry of it now, of all places, a month after the heiress’s betrothal?" Vesiphis didn’t back down. Large claws started growing from his fingertips while the tattoos on his wings darkened. He struggled to take in a breath as he yelled, 
"Do you realize what uncle Morys will think, what the chieftain and grand elder will think?"
"I am no whelp like you. I am qualified to make my own decisions." 
Vesiphis laughed, but everyone could tell it wasn’t out of good humour.
The other kids retreated, freeing up a circle for the two obvious hostile sides. Elrhain even saw Olwina and Ariana share a strained look before remaining in front of the other kids as shields.
‘Oh! Are they gonna do it?’ 
This would be the first actual fantasy fight he’d witness if that were to be the case.
"I was mistaken about you, cousin Cadfael. I simply assumed you were too fixated on training manna, and that's why you found us indolent cousins too beneath you to spend your time with. I could accept that. After all, a life of cultivation is admirable." Vesiphis spat on the ground, his wings spreading wide, "But you're just a manner-less fool, letting your supreme talent get to your head!"
Cadfael unexpectedly nodded.
"So you do know I am a supreme. Then you should know my reasons, cousin Vesiphis. Or why else would she and I be born into the same era? The spirits had called forth this fate for us, and I witnessed my future with her during the blessed night! The only person worthy of my heiress in the clan is me, and the only person who is qualified to judge me is her,"
The shadows under his feet swayed threateningly, their dance rising in tempo with his every word.
"Not you, not the adults, and clearly not the clan which is forcing my heiress to be with that talentless waste."
Cadfael smiled warmly like a summer orchid in bloom as he gazed at Agwyn, not at all out of place on his otherwise impassive face.
Then his eyes turned bloodshot when he saw Agwyn clutching Elrhain's sleeves while rubbing her tiny face on his cheek.
…the girl wasn’t even looking at him.
Elrhain, on the other hand, stared him dead in the eyes while stroking Agwyn's leafy hair. 
「Do you think he will break his façade again if I sniff your hair?」
「Why don’t we just kiss?」
「No way, your breath stinks.」
「Then invent toothpaste!」
Elrhain moved his head away from Agwyn’s upturned lips before lightly slapping her mouth. As he yelled in pain with his hand bitten by the evil chipmunk, he noticed something.
Something refreshing.
With all the headaches these other Earthloch kids, including Cadfael, had brought along, he had no chance to ruminate about the nightmares that haunted him every waking moment the last few weeks.
If it was two days ago, he would have been drawing up sophisticated plans and workarounds about everything or be worrying about things that hardly mattered at this point in time. Yet now, he felt invigorated and satisfied, as if an enormous weight had been taken off his shoulders.
It reminded him of the feeling he experienced when he had just finished an epoch-shattering toxic fight with strangers online.
「Actually, this might not be so bad.」 Elrhain subconsciously said through the link.
「What?!」Agwyn recoiled, her teeth bared.
「Meeting people, even if they’re kids.」 Elrhain said, his hands pinching her cheeks to keep her from biting him again,「All this time, the only people we could truly be honest with were ourselves. Even with our family, we had to put on façades and be wary of what we say. With these numskulls, we can relax a bit.」
「I don’t think they are as stupid as you think. They all look like fluffy kindergarten buns but act totally edgy like eighth graders.」 Agwyn nodded,「But I get your point.」
She suddenly widened her eyes. 
「Is that why you have been acting peculiar lately?」
「No I haven’t! I don’t know what you’re talking about.」
「I see now!」 Agwyn clapped her hands, 「The repeated stuffy confinements, first in that room in the Siaglas courtyard, then in this Earthloch courtyard. Just when we thought we could go out more, we were again stuffed inside rooms like sacks of potatoes.」
「Uh, yup. That is the case, just boredom, I guess.」
「Even if our bodies can get used to such long periods of passivity, to our human minds, it has already been thirty-hell-be-damned-long Earth years.」 Agwyn loosened her shoulders as if she could already feel the inertia flying away, 「It’s no wonder you’ve been having nightmares and talking about how the world will eat you alive in your sleep in dramatic voices!」
Elrhain choked on his breath, 「No, that is a wrong deduction, you amateur sleuth!」
Agwyn grinned, 「Now that you realize it’s okay to socialize, how about sharing all those bottled up, stinky worries with me? I bet even our family will listen if you just speak, especially grandpa.」
「That’s not it, I tell you!」 But Agwyn would have none of it. She kept rubbing her face on his even harder, whispering to him why silence bred devils like the devil herself.
Vesiphis, who saw their overly intimate lovey-dovey behaviour from the other side of a stunned Cadfael, laughed out loud in vindication, "Well too bad for you, our heiress refuses your worthless pledge faster than a Racadger eats its cubs."
If looks could kill, then the glare Cadfael shot would have murdered Vesiphis ten times over, and Elrhain would have died a thousand.
Finally, throwing away the last semblance of politeness, Vesiphis raised a corner of his lips, “You mocked Lord Elrhain, like mother like son? I could say the same thing about you, shameless Horuxi primitive who respects not our traditions!”
The second he finished shouting what Elrhain could only guess was an ethnic slur, the shadows under Cadfael’s feet shot out like torpedoes.
*Shwoosh!*
Vesiphis didn’t even try to dodge, using his giant wings to block the blows.
The wind carried with it the resulting shock wave as a cloud of dust exploded up alongside torn stalks of grass, flowers, and leaves.
“Kya!” Cati and Ysbail cried out, hugging each other like lost lambs in a hurricane while the other kids dropped their relaxed attitude just as fast. Only when they saw Vesiphis unscathed did they sigh in relief.
The markings on Vesiphis’s wings glowed crimson, the dust and sand gathering into numerous spear-like torrents in front of his outstretched clawed palms. He flew into the sky dodging all of Cadfael’s attacks, then rained down the spears from above like a harbinger of justice.
This time, it was the shadows that acted as a shield to protect Cadfael from the counter barrage. But it gave enough time for Vesiphis to gather a river of conjured sand into one massive golden trident.
“Repent your actions in the healer’s hut!” The winged boy screamed as the spear came crashing down like a meteorite.
Cadfael snorted, replying with a “Weakling!” as his shadows too morphed into a giant sword of darkness along the tip of his bone blade.
And the two forces, one slashing and one piercing, clashed like thunder.
*Booom!*
Another huge shockwave exploded out, only the two shouts coming from the center of the impact making it past.
Elrhain tilted his head in confusion. He had been wide jawed at this magic battle until then, amazed at what kids not even in the Earthen realm could do. This level of destructive prowess… then what about Oceanic? And…. Could the birdbrained slug woman really be that powerful?
Then he heard Vesiphis and Cadfael’s loud voices echo out from the dust screen. Those shouts sounded more like…yelps?
When the dust settled once again, he found out why.
A man with an axe strapped to his back held the two struggling kids up-side-down by their legs. Red bumps throbbed comically on their heads as their tears streamed down, while the weapons of sand and shadows were nowhere to be seen.
The other kids cheered, seeing an adult finally intervening.
Elrhain recognized the man. 
It was Morys. Cadfael’s father.
“Okay, someone tell me what in founder’s name is going on.”
***
A few minutes later, Ysbail and Cati were excitedly recounting everything that had transpired while Morys’s face grew darker by the seconds.
His pelted kilt and exposed torso, along with the jokes he made during their first meeting initially gave a Bromwyn-like jovial barbarian impression to Elrhain. But in reality, the guy was way grumpier, sporting many more un-Bromwyn facial expressions, mainly at his son.
Who now sat kneeling to the side with a black and blue face.
‘Yikes.’ Elrhain shuddered.
Vesiphis wasn’t beaten up. But he on his own, kneeled beside Cadfael as self-reflection.
“… and then there was a big sand stick, and long darky things went phaw! The wind was boom!”
“No, Cati, the sand was boom! The wind was shwaa and Busyfish and Black meanie threw manna and potty words….”
The sentences might have been nonsense, but their sheer expressiveness made up for it. 
「Wait, let me do something. Time to put that creep away for good.」 Saying that, Agwyn pushed through the kids and hopped in front of Cadfael’s father like a bunny.
She called out to the brooding man with a cute, yet frightened voice, “Um… uncle Mowys, can you pwease take black meanie away?”
Elrhain winced. No father wanted to hear that about their children. But Agwyn’s façade was so perfect, even he wouldn’t find any malice in it, much less Morys.
As if to prove his point, Morys sighed while shooting Agwyn a complicated look.
He rubbed his temples while saying, “My niece, don’t worry. I’ll make sure my son doesn’t behave like this again. He isn’t actually… a bad person.”
“No! He said mean things to my Ellie and mommy Ewuned!” Agwyn turned her glossy eyes upward and bit her lower lips, the pearly tears rolling out in giant droplets. “He calls them wasty servants and, and he said they don’t have, um, alibities!
“Abilities!” Ysbail corrected, and Cati giggled.
“Yes, that! He said he’s going to take Annie away from Ewwie! He also hurt big brother Bewifish!”
She then started trembling, but managed to grab onto Morys’s pelted kilt with shaky hands, “I was sooo scared when he took out his sword. Annie thought he hit me, but he acthuwally hit himself!”
‘Savage. This is too cruel.’ Elrhain touched the side of his forehead with his hand and peered towards Cadfael.
The boy still had his head down, but his fingers drew deep trenches in the ground.
‘The power of a cute little girl whimpering is too destructive!’
Morys’s eyes softened, but there was a hint of shame there too. He squatted down and patted Agwyn’s head tenderly,
“You are such a wonderful heiress, just like your father and mother. The fault is mine, my niece. I realize I have been too lenient on my son because of his talent.” He then looked towards Elrhain and actually bowed his head.
The others gasped, especially Vesiphis, while Cadfael looked mortified.
“I apologize for all that my ruffian son had spoken to the heir and your family. Be assured that I will go and apologize to Lord and Lady Siaglas in person after this too.”
“Father, why do y-“
“Silence! Have you not shamed me enough already?” Morys yelled, and Cadfael, for the first time that day, looked hurt.
The older man turned to Vesiphis next, “Stand, Vesiphis.”
“My lord, I cannot. I have also behaved unsightly, forcing cousin Cadfael’s actions with my uncouth words.”
“Enough of that, boy. And for the last time, call me uncle.” Morys placed his giant palm on Vesiphis’s shoulder.
“Tell me, what is this ‘sword thumpy promise’ that little Cati and Ysbail keep on talking about?”
“It was… he tried to mimic the verses in the Pledge of Red Fate.”
Morys’s eyes went wide in shock as he took a deep breath, before throwing another stern glare at his son. Cadfael seemed to shrink under his father’s gaze, who was probably the only person in the world whose opinion mattered to him. 
When the disappointment coloured Morys’s eyes, replacing the rage, Cadfael’s shadows… snivelled, as if they were sad huskies drooping their tails.
‘At least his dad can reign him in.’
Morys shook his head, then picked up Cadfael and put him on his shoulder like a sack of soybeans, “It looks like I will have to apologize to the Grand Elder and Grand Shamanka too.”
Elrhain, with his superhuman hearing, heard him mutter under a breath, “I wished he could’ve made some friends… Agata, your son is too much like you, too much.”
And for the first time, Elrhain felt awful about the whole situation. Not at Cadfael, but at the father who had to shoulder all the shame in his foolhardy son’s place.




Chapter 31 - Less than Instinct, More than Ego

The fragrance of roasted meat warred in the air, accompanied by the beats of teeth on bone and the crunch of nuts. Howell cracked seed after seed while having his fill of what looked like a 5-kilogram chunk of fantasy beef. At the same time, Eudav and Arfon debated the best way to grill fruit and shrimp for maximum flavour.
“Slow down, Vesiphis. The food isn’t going to run away.”
“My lord, you should be the one to put that fish head down. That’s your fifth!”
Elrhain had devoured too many bowls of delicacies to count as if he had fasted for months, savouring each bite and sip of this sumptuous feast. He couldn’t help it; it tasted way too good!
He had once bemoaned the absence of spices and MSG in Earthloch cuisine. Even sugar was nowhere to be seen, with crude salt and some wastefully dried herbs being the most used condiment.
But the range of flavours a dhionne tongue could identify was countless times more than a human. Each slice of meat from different parts of different gheists tasted a wholly different umami flavour, even though they were all of the same lean quality.
The fruits, aged, pulped or fresh, were also an explosion of sweet, sour, bitter, or all of them combined.
While he was confident that he could make these already delicious dishes figuratively reach the heavens with the right spices, he had learnt to let go of what could not be and focused on what is.
Such as the bird's leg roasted to a splendid golden brown in his left hand and the plump rainbow coloured peach-fruit on his right.
Opposite to him across the narrow split-log table, Vesiphis too was mowing down enough food to feed a village. His hands were not enough to satiate his extraordinary appetite, so Ysbail and Cati happily acted as conveyor belts of food, depositing one item after another into his open maw.
After a while, Siani, Olwina and Ariana joined in on the fun.
Yet throughout all that, the winged boy still had a sullen expression at what had transpired with Cadfael. He couldn’t help glancing at the direction Morys had departed from time to time.
“Don’t let it bother you too much, comrade. You did what you thought was right in a situation not of your own doing.” Elrhain advised the brooding pup.
“… I know.” Vesiphis gulped down a mouthful of mushroom, “But it… feels wrong. I do not wish to see disharmony in our house, not with the collapse right around the corner.”
“You blame yourself for disharmony that Cadfael wrought?”
".…It was not his fault alone. And as the eldest, I have an obligation to lead by example."
"Perhaps you do. And when Cadfael did something obviously ill-advised, backed by his selfish desires, you decided to stop him. I think your actions were exemplary enough."
Vesiphis didn’t look convinced, "Yet I don't think he will change his ways. Father had warned me about characters like him who are so common in the Impelakty, I didn’t expect my own house would have one as well. What if he takes drastic measures now, with the disregard he already has for the clan?"
The boy scratched his wings, the white fluff on the tips seemed far greyer than before. Elrhain could also detect slight cracks on the membranes, which slowly mended as Vesiphis’s fingers traced over them.
"If I can't help him revise his willful ways, then what's the point?"
Elrhain thought on that question for a while, munching on a root vegetable of some kind. The earthy taste was reminiscent of the woodland taro back home. It was refreshing in a way that cleared up his mind.
Vesiphis peered at him with expectant eyes. It really hammered in the fact the winged boy was still that, a boy. A child who could hardly see the intricacies of the world no matter how maturely he spoke.
He asked difficult questions with difficult answers.
And just like any other kid, he needed guidance when encountering a situation like this, when reality smacked him right on the face blowing away his ideals of the world.
Though for some reason, he sought this guidance from Elrhain. 
Maybe it was because Vesiphis was just hyper curious like children tend to be, or perhaps because there were no actual adults around, or it could be that Elrhain gave off a more adult-like feeling than he realized. 
Elrhain was sure that the Vesiphis as a child would forget this dilemma in the face of more exciting things he would see tomorrow.
But what if he didn’t? 
So Elrhain wanted to give him a proper answer, whatever that might be.
"Let me ask you this. Do you believe what you did was absolutely useless?" He carefully asked.
Vesiphis looked frustrated for a second, but then nodded uncertainly.
"Yes. The only thing my actions did was aggravate the conflict further. Cadfael maintained his stand that only he was worthy of the heiress’s hand to the very end, despite my intervention. Or even uncle Morys’."
"I disagree. You accomplished many things with your actions today. Many things that actually matter to the clan right now." Elrhain smiled.
"Firstly, you protected Annie and me from a bully, proving your courage and sense of duty. Secondly, you showed to our house that you are willing to oppose even a supreme talent, a relative no less, in the name of the justice you believe in. At the very least, you earned mine and Annie's trust with that. Only the blind would not see your integrity."
Elrhain stopped and took a bite out of the giant boiled snail Agwyn held to his mouth, imitating how the five girls were feeding Vesiphis. He closed his eyes to chew for a few moments to fully savour the taste and formulate his thoughts.
'Like lemon chicken.'
When he opened them again, all the others too were attentively staring at him, waiting for what he had to say. Indeed, the circumstances had made each of them more intelligent than their Earth counterparts.
Elrhain couldn’t help but smile.
"Finally, you showed us that you are compassionate. Even now, you feel sorrow for the very culprit who chipped your wings and cut your hands. Many would call that a weakness, but to me, it is one of the most important qualities that make a true leader. You feel sorrow, because you care. Some would simply handwave this matter away after the dust had settled."
As he finished speaking, a silence stretched out, waiting for someone to break it. Vesiphis looked down at his injured fingers. Then clenching and loosening his fists, he voiced the same question as he did at the start, "I thank you for your praise, my lord. But what of cousin Cadfael’s current position? What kind of leader am I if I had to antagonize a blood relative to prove all that? I did not mean to marginalize him with my actions. Why couldn’t he just... calm down and think. That way, he wouldn’t be punished as such."
Elrhain and Agwyn flinched at those familiar words. They exchanged a wistful gaze but laughed nonetheless.
「Dhionnes are just humans with magic.」 Agwyn whispered, and Elrhain agreed despite this very fact being one of his fears in the nightmares.
Dhionnes, humans. 
They puzzle over the same things, go through the same emotions, and commit the same mistakes.
"The question you ask is one that has no clear answer. What is the meaning of life? Why do wrongdoers commit evil? Why should we fight for survival in the collapse when it is much easier to just give up? Why is Cadfael the way he is right now?"
The crisp wind and summer sun felt slightly scorched on his skin. It helped him keep his point of view grounded, to set up a response that agreed with his own selfish morality. To see the clan’s future not in conflict with his own.
Because Elrhain knew that his following words would possibly define Vesiphis’ and all the other kids' lives from now on to a tangible extent.
It would be a lie to say he didn’t find the situation both heavy and amusing. He was hoodwinking them, in a sense.
"Because of choice, my winged compatriot. There are other factors, sure. But people ultimately are who they choose to be."
'Like how I was a lazy, unlovable coward in my last life.'
Elrhain shook those thoughts away and continued, "Sigils can deter a slave from the choice of what they do through pain and violence. But the most profound thoughts in their hearts will always be their own. Because the freedom of thought, and what they do with it, is the absolute scale on which to judge a person, in my humble opinion, of course.
There will be a point in an individual’s life where a single choice will define them for the rest of their lives. A truth or die moment, which will influence every future decision they make, slaves and nobles alike. That,” Elrhain pointed at the place where Cadfael and Vesiphis fought, “is who Cadfael is right now."
His audience looked puzzled, perhaps not understanding the deeper nuance. 
Elrhain sighed and sorted out his words, “I am not talking about status, situation, cultivation, knowledge, or the many other things that you think may define you, that you think you have little to no control over. Yet those are all either external factors only fate can dictate or animalistic urges you cannot ever command.”
He thumped his chest with his tiny fist, not caring for the grease that smeared his robe. 
“What I am talking about is internal. The most fundamental part of your character that nothing but your own conscious choices, your morality can shape. Not the murder of your family, and not even unlimited riches. Call it your, superego. The midpoint between your character moulded by external situations, your ego, and the bestial desires etched deep into your flesh that is too unpredictable to trust, your instincts shall we say.”
Elrhain saw a hint of realization dawn upon a few of those glossy optimistic eyes, and beamed. These kids truly were bright seedlings that can be taught. Well, except for Cati and Ysbail, who looked as confused as a bird in water.
So with a nod of a teacher, Elrhain said, “Cadfael’s superego and morality, built by no one other than himself, will not change because of a few words from you. Just as your choice to block his path was not prevented by his apparent superior talent, or his claims that might sound logical to many people of our Siorrakty. 
Many say that you are what your environment makes you. But for me who has not seen many truths of the world in person, have not suffered the vastitude of fate’s cruel mechanisms, I can say that we, as nobles, are privileged. We have far better handle on our own destiny, and our own choices than that of servants. The same is true for you and Cadfael, and everyone else present here. 
We are what we let the environment make of us! Is what I believe in. What matters now,”
Elrhain paused. He gave their brains a slight respite to further take in the advice. The anticipation would help them remember what they were feeling in this moment for cycles to come,
“Is what choice you make. To you, you failed because you couldn’t change Cadfael’s mind. But have you already etched that conclusion to your soul? Will you let it define your future choices? I sure hope not. Because like I said, to me, your accomplishments today far outweigh your measly losses. 
So, what will you do? Will you succumb to the failure which you so readily admitted, wallowing in the possibilities of what could have been? 
Or will you remember the pain of this one failure within your many successes, learn from it, and continue to grow into a leader that can find victory even within the bleakest of defeats? The choice, my friend, is yours.”
With that said, Elrhain pointed his upturned palm towards the winged boy. 
Vesiphis took a long few minutes to comprehend Elrhain’s words. He mumbled in confusion with a distracted look on his face, while the others around the table peeked at him with nervous expressions.
Finally, when Elrhain was just about to start sweating in embarrassment, Vesiphis stood up with a jolt, “My lord! I have been presumptuous. How could I dare claim to be a leader when we have both the heir and heiress? With the wisdom you have just-“
Elrhain slammed the table hard in anger, Agwyn facepalming beside him with a giggle. He pointed at Vesiphis with spittle flying out of his mouth,
“You numbskull! You five sisters, hold this fool down and make him drink that pot full of honeyrot pulp to clear his demented brain!” His fingers swished in the wind, marking a large jar harrowing with ominous bubbling concoction.
The little ladies saluted, ignoring Vesiphis’s struggles as they forced him to chug two litres worth of edible retribution. Siani even brought out a second smaller jar that stank like wet socks.
The deed finished and Vesiphis now purple in the face, Elrhain asked,
“You done with the jokes?”
The other boy burped while he glared at the five girls in indignation, maybe also indigestion.
“My lord, I truly wasn’t joking! I have understood what you taught me and will always remember it by heart. And that is but another proof of the fact that no one else but you are worthy of tackling such complex subjects, despite your age. Your charisma makes us listen to your words, which I sorely lacked when I stopped Cadfael’s foolishness.”
Elrhain groaned, finding it excruciating to deal with Vesiphis’s thought process, “First you brood on a problem till your face turned blue. Now that your face is purple, you immediately skipped over an issue the moment you identified it. You…”
Vesiphis managed to blush even with his nauseous expression.
“Forget it. Look. First of all, if you think I am some charismatic leader that can change people’s mind with a few words, you are woefully mistaken. I’d be a mind-controlling Naeman witch then, not a leader. I can only advise; the choice to change is others. And second,”
He reached over the log table and slapped Vesiphis’s pudgy cheeks a few times, “If you don’t have confidence in your charisma, then simply become a different type of leader. A type that needs little. Or even, none.”
“A different… type?”
“Yes. Not all leaders have to make blood boiling speeches or lead a charge at the front into enemy lines. Each major quality defines a particular kind of leader, and a great leader simply commands many of them. Some lead by the force of their overwhelming cultivation, some by their heart-chilled cunning, and some by their mesmerizing beauty. They each lack the type of charisma you hope for. But they all have a different type of charisma only their followers, and enemies, can see. One of which I am certain you too possess.”
“R-Really?” Vesiphis tried to stand up but had trouble balancing himself. His stomach rumbled hard, but strangely his visage turned healthier after that.
Elrhain nodded, “From what I have seen, the kids listen to you not because you have a magnetic charm, but because of your very effective nagging.”
“…what?”
“It’s true. I saw how you broke up fights, and that time you stopped Siani. You nag and complain. And when that doesn’t work, you use the good old-fashioned fist and stick. They listen to you, because they trust that the only time you hound them like a deranged shrew is when they have done something wrong. They can see your goodwill through that veil of annoying scolding. Ain’t that right?”
The other kids glanced at each other in bewilderment for a few moments, then burst into childish laughter. They nodded and hooted at the winged kid.
It was a heartwarming scene for Elrhain….
…but not for Vesiphis!
“Wait, y-you guys. Is that really why you’ve been following me?” He looked both incensed and dumbfounded.
Siani shot back, “Why? You thought it was because of how heroic you are, oh noble and courageous Busyfish?” She paused for a bit, then burst into a second round of fits and giggles with everyone else.
Vesiphis deflated, “H-How could this be….”
Elrhain couldn’t stop the corners of his lips from curling, “Cheer up, bud. Is your goal to be a particular kind of leader like those in legends, or a leader that can get the job done honourably, regardless of how… unheroic he looks?”
“….”
“Hmm?”
“……Bwaaaaah!”
Vesiphis wallowed, bursting into tears. The sudden change in his weather shocked even Elrhain. However, he then remembered that no matter what, Vesiphis was still, just, seven!
The winged boy wailed for a while longer, as if his whole world had been a lie. Agwyn and Elrhain looked on awkwardly, not knowing what to do, while the other kids switched from teasing to try and cheer Vesiphis up.
Then finally, finding the last bit of courage, the winged boy wiped the tears and snot away and asked, “T-Then what kind of leader does the h-heir think I can be?”
Elrhain huffed in relief seeing the pup regaining his bearing, then smiled, “You, my good friend, are a manager.”
““A manager?”” Not just Vesiphis, but everyone else too asked in unison.
“Exactly. The meaning is in the name,” Elrhain held up his index finger towards them, “A leader, who manages.”


Chapter 32 - Dichotomy

The feast ended early.
A flier arrived in extreme urgency, bearing word of a new group of arrivals. The watch member mounted on the winged gheist dropped down on the other garden without so much as a proper greeting, signifying the importance of the news. He even dared to interrupt a feast attended by so many main house echelons.
A few minutes later, an urgent vissage’d chieftain charged Aunt Meredith with the task of bringing back the children to their residential courtyards.
But the heir and heiress would have none of it. 
After more time wasted from their incessant begging and crying, the Grand Elder finally decided to bring them along, citing how they would have to “get used to it sooner or later”.
Of course, Vesiphis himself would be going accompanying his father. So would Olwina and Ariana.
It was their duty as the eldest three of the present cousins, excluding Cadfael, who was second, to take the helm of clan matters before all else. Especially when it meant evaluating the casualties within the newly arrived dhionne convoy. 
In which, according to the watch, death numbered more than ten heads.
***
Vesiphis watched on with puffy eyes as the chieftainess carried away the bawling heiress. Just a few ten-minutes ago, it was Vesiphis who could not stop wailing at that soul-shattering revelation by the heir. 
But now, it was the heir himself who had almost fainted as he witnessed the carnage wrought by the gheists. The tiny boy had vomited out all the food from the feast at the sight of blood and gore.
‘I suppose he is still a babe.’
Vesiphis found the dichotomy oddly acceptable. 
The heir, Elrhain, was so curiously composed while articulating about complex matters as he did earlier that he gave the illusion of a sage in a boy’s body. One’s instinct versus one’s moral self, and what knowledge a dhionne could glean from the profound truths which rise in that inner clash.
The heir’s wisdom was eye-opening. As if it had dragged Vesiphis out from a swamp of murky deception to a world of clarity.
Yet the same Elrhain could not stand the sight of blood, a sight which would only become increasingly common in the coming future.
Vesiphis remembered the first time he had witnessed such. A hunter had his legs mutilated by a Panena— a mushroom-like gheist adept in stealth and deceit. He was 5 cycles old then, and had actually passed out.
So, a babe or not, the two clan heirs were certainly handling this experience better than he had.
“Wise,” Vesiphis muttered under his breath, “But inexperienced, as he should be.”
“Who is?” His father, Cadwell Endcloud Earthloch, asked from beside him with bewildered eyes, noticing that Vesiphis had streaks of water on his face. He was right to be surprised, as Vesiphis rarely ever cried since two cycles ago, and this time he actually wailed like a babe during a merry feast.
‘So embarrassing!’ Vesiphis could not help his face from heating up, which bewildered his father even more.
The chieftain’s aid was overseeing the site of the impromptu healers' huts as one injured dhionne after another was carried in.
Apparently, a new manna-riogh had sprouted in this group’s travel route. The Onthoakt, their leader, had bravely fought the gheists off with the other cultivators, hunters or not alike. 
Yet the riogh had overflowed.
The resultant gheist stampede was too much, too fast.
Onthoakt Dey resisted admirably. Yet the mammoth of a man now watched on listless, his injured left arm bounded to his body with medicinal wraps. He could not save twenty-seven of his people, mostly elderly but five children too under ten cycles, and three young men.
The heir had caught one of the surviving children staring at her deceased father’s body with dull eyes, and had completely lost his bearing.
The same child was whom Vesiphis observed right now, standing beside her mourning mother.
“Lord Elrhain, father.” He replied, his eyes following a healer dragging the hysterical dhionne woman away from the decaying body.
Cadwell raised an eyebrow at his son’s answer. 
“The heir could not keep his composure in the face of… this. Should most not consider that a show of disgrace?”
“Perhaps. But the heir will only grow strong from it. His reaction means he cares, and I am confident that he will be the one to lead our whole Siorrakty through the collapse to clinch victory.”
His father whistled in good humour, “Such high praise, my son. Since when do you think about things so deeply?”
Vesiphis blushed, scratching his head, “I’m just repeating what the heir himself told me a few hours ago.”
“Is that so, young Cadwell?” A gruff voice suddenly spoke out from behind, and Vesiphis turned around in a hurry. He had recognized the speaker, and bowed to show his reverence.
The Grand Elder stood there with the chieftain and the Grand Shamanka herself. All three supreme leaders had come to see the injured. They would presumably also examine each of the deceased with their own eyes as always.
Because some decisions they simply could not make without understanding the consequences of the collapse themselves.
“G-Grand Elder-”
Thundham interrupted him by waving a hand. The old man smiled, “Pray tell what that fish-gremlin grandson of mine put into your head? No doubt our Grand Shamanka here would also be interested.”
The much younger-looking, yet two full heads taller woman nodded in eagerness.
Vesiphis stood in the presence of the three most authoritative clan figures, and gulped, weighing if that conversation was something he should keep secret.
He judged no, since all the other younglings had also been there to bathe in the heir’s wisdom.
So, he cleared his throat and straightened his back, doing his best to re-convey what had been spoken during the feast as faithfully as he could. At the very end of his narrative, he finished up with his own comments on the matter.
“G-Grand Shamanka, if I may be so bold to offend, what lord Elrhain told me made so much more sense than what the storytellers speak of about similar subjects during our monthly sermons. They only praise the spirits or the disc and blame any inner turmoil a dhionne can face upon fate. Yet the heir explained cousin Cadfael’s, and all dhionne’s…umm, mentality, so precisely, with examples I could see with my eyes or hear with my ears. Like the runes of an array formation by a mage, in contrast to the runes of a ritual of the shamans and witches. 
Until now, all I have heard over and over again could not even compare with the few words from the heir. Honestly, if I had only been taught as such from a younger age, I could have handled today’s matter to a better conclusion.”
“Certainly,” Lilian nodded enthusiastically, her demeanour more like a young shaman apprentice rather than an expert of high dignity, “Ego, instinct, superego. Such wondrous concepts. Thundham, did you teach such things to him? No, that can’t be it. And I cannot imagine Bromwyn or Cyra doing that either, much less his own parents.”
Thundham looked laughably offended at that, while the chief actually laughed.
“How peculiar indeed! Did he gather all that from the meagre dhionne interactions he observed in the past cycles? Or is there more?” Lilian muttered, her fingers that gripped the staff tapped against its surface. 
She then turned towards Vesiphis again as the same staff lightly bonked on his head. Her eyes curved into crescents, seemingly finding amusement in Vesiphis’s reaction.
The playful chiding was by no means painful. But Vesiphis still squinted his eyes, shuffling uncomfortably in place.
Lilian laughed, “Whatever may be the case, you should keep those words in your heart. Since you are still young. You have all the time in the world to learn and cultivate yourself. Do not lament like an old geezer when you are not even ten. That should be our job!”
Lilian’s following words cheered him up, “Follow your father and learn. No matter how much the heir can spell out the ways of the world from his feathered bed in a closed and guarded room, he will nevertheless need companions to guide him through the hurdles of the real world. When that time comes, I am sure your role in his journey will be just as significant as his role in yours right now. Understood?”
“Y-Yes, Grand Shamanka!” Vesiphis stuttered out an excited reply with his fists clenched tight. This had probably been the best day of his life, to be praised as such by the Grand Shamanka herself! The motivation to strive for better was brimming within his tiny soul.
“Now go! See how your other two cousins are helping out and tending to the injured? I expected you to take the lead as the eldest.”
“I am on it, your holiness!” Saying that, he rushed off towards Olwina and Ariana. The former used her bloodline’s mortal Totem to help the healers remove poison from an elderly woman, while the latter acted as her helper with her mastery of lesser water spells.
Vesiphis didn’t know exactly how he could be of assistance with his sand aspected manifestation. But he knew, all he had to do was ask one of the healers or watches, and they would show him the proper steps.
That was enough.
Like the Grand Shamanka had said, he still had time.
And he would make excellent use of that time, and his current optimism.
When the heir had grown up, when Vesiphis himself too gained enough experience to be a good manager, he would be ready by Elrhain’s side.
He would absolutely not let Olwina, Ariana, or anyone else get a head start on that.
*******
“Exactly like you, Cadwell,” Thundham said to the winged man as Cadwell’s son sprinted away in newfound inspiration. “Though I still question exactly what you saw in my stone-headed son the first time you met him.”
“Me too, my lord, me too.” Cadwell watched his son fondly, “Though if what my son recounted is true, he will be in better hands.”
Thundham, and even Bromwyn, who stood to the side, guffawed at the statement.
“True indeed. If only the other houses could have the eyes to see. Especially our Grand Shamanka’s prideful nephew, ey?”
Lilian groaned, “Can you stop bringing that up? I’ve already beaten the spirits out of him twice. What more do you want?”
“Haha, my apologies. I speak with no offence. And as long as cousin Bevin doesn’t try to sell his grandson to me anymore, I am sure he will mean no offence either.” Thundham replied, not at all deterred by Lilian’s scowl.
His aged eyes kept watching his people come and go, their plight, and their resilience.
‘As long as we can tread past this initial stage, all will be well. All should have been well, but….’
Because he didn’t only see what was in front. He also saw the future and similar problems cropping up one after the other. His eyes flickered, only Lilian catching a glimpse of the flashing emotion.
This was precisely why she didn’t berate Thundham for incessantly bringing up Bevin Earthloch Sonora. Because she too could see the disharmony her nephew’s blind zeal for forcing his own ideals could bring about, and what it would mean for the clan's unity.
As it was, food, shelter, safety… and a good night’s sleep, everything was already a luxury.
They needed solutions, not more internal problems.
And they needed those solutions fast. Because in two cycles at most, both the internal and external complications of the clan would reach a tipping point, and ultimately, everything would start losing cohesiveness.


Chapter 33 - Inner Equilibrium

“You’ll regret this. You know that, right? You think you’re the only hot shit on the market? I will see how many of those unrealistic, utopian dreams you can pull off being so naïve. They’ll eat you alive, this world.”
“Yes. I don’t trust myself enough to keep a reign on what a person with too much ambition will do. I don’t trust people, in general, to keep their ambitions to themselves, either. Better let the government handle all that.” 
*******
Elrhain woke up feeling refreshed. The voices of the past echoed in his ears in a vain attempt to pull him into the nightmares one last time. But his mind was too rejuvenated to pay them any heed.
He blinked, then blinked again.
The moonlight bounced off his honey glazed skin, the celestial bodies above playing hide and seek with the night clouds as their pearly light flickered dim and bright.
When he sat up, he noticed the leafy bedding underneath his palms. Somebody had taken him back to their room, and he didn’t even know when he had fallen asleep.
‘Why?… oh.’
His memories came back in gentle streams. The emotions remained, yet their intensity faded to a black and white, as if he was reliving that moment as a spectator in a noir cinema.
The dead dhionne being carried away for their untimely cremation, the lifeless body of a young boy torn in half, and the survivors looking on with their numb, unfeeling gazes. The little girl who could not cry even though her entire being screamed in anguish. 
So he cried in her stead, in their stead. 
And now, he sat more awake than ever.
He looked towards the girl sitting at the edge of the bed right by the window. Her serene gaze fixed on the many moons above.
The night was cold, the wind bringing an icy calmness with it as it comfortably ruffled Elrhain’s fuzzy hair.
‘Had it rained?’ 
From where he was, the sky didn’t look madden with angry cumulonimbi. But it had a certain luminous quality to it, as if the stars had been magnified by windows of water, and the starlight now scattered off surfaces in a much more vigorous manner. The forest cacophony outside was crisper, and every breath so fresh.
So distant from the death and sorrow of the dhionne earlier.
Elrhain crawled, too lazy to stand up, and took a seat beside Agwyn.
“Annie…”,
“It’s not our fault.” She said. “We didn’t know some dumb ritual would cause a mass refugee cw-crisis. No one told us. They were all cryptic and, like, listen to the ancestors’ guidance!”
“I agree,” Elrhain said, and Agwyn turned towards him with an unconvinced look. She scrutinized his face carefully before gently smiling.
“I thought you would still be blaming yourself. Making up how oh so unfortunate you are, my dear self-deprecating gentle sir.”
“… I did enough of that in my head already, so you are kind of right.”
A moment passed before both of them laughed. It was weak, had no humour, and, as Agwyn put it, self-deprecating. 
“Annie, can I ask you something?” Elrhain said. His uncharacteristic reservation made Agwyn’s eyes quiver. Yet, she nodded.
「Are you Annie because you are Agwyn?」 The hesitation in Elrhain’s magical voice was unmistakable for the nervous little girl, 「Or because you are Annamaria Hildebrand?」
Agwyn averted her eyes, but Elrhain pushed on. 
「Am I Ellie because I am Elrhain, or Alex Fischer?」
He could see her tiny body tremble with every word. But this was something he wanted, no, needed to know. It would decide him an answer to a question all too important to ignore anymore.
Finally, after ten more minutes of silence, or perhaps rumination, Agwyn opened her mouth.
「I don’t know.」 She said, and Elrhain sighed. But suddenly, the girl started weeping, repeating her answer out and without, “I don’t know!” 
And within, 「I don’t know!」
Before he realized it, Elrhain found himself hugging her quivering shoulders. It was a tight hug, and whatever hesitation Elrhain might have felt with himself the days prior vanished like puffs of smoke. He stroked her leafy hair as gently as he could, and Agwyn’s sobbing turned into muffled wails.
“I don’t know….”
It wasn’t until Eluned rushed into their room that Agwyn regained a semblance of tranquillity. But even then, she was unwilling to let go of him. Finally, Elrhain’s mother laid down beside the two in the bed. She hummed a lullaby, her soft singing harmonizing with Agwyn’s gentle breathing. 
For once, Elrhain felt guilt for making the two most important women in his new life upset.
*******
Eyes red and a strained smile, Agwyn piped after swallowing a boiled bone-marrow-like piece of meat. “Are you bullying me?”
Elrhain smirked, “What? You embarrassed that you had to be cuddled to sleep two days in a row-owe! Ouch! Stop that!” He tried to push away the hands pulling his hair and ear, but the other party was too strong.
“Rude.” Finally, after Cyra had pried off Agwyn’s iron grip while picking up the flailing daughter, he complained with a nasal tone. The little girl just hmphed before shyly lowering her eyes. She started awkwardly twiddling with her fingers.
“Does it matter if I am Annamaria or Agwyn? I still love-”
“Alright! I get it. Geez, Annie, you don’t have to say such embarrassing things out loud.” He stopped, 「We have Earth common for a reason, you know! 」
「E-Ellie, what if one day I forget how it is like to be the old me and completely become a different person? I-I’m scared. What if this strange world turns us into people the past we would detest? What if you don’t want to be with me anymore because I don’t have a cute tail like Siani or Ysbail?」
「Eh, they do have cute tails. 」 Elrhain scratched his ear, but then he shuddered, sensing danger. 「Put that plate down, you violent hag! I dare you to throw that at me. I double dare you. Let’s see how you fare when I stop talking to you for a month straight.」
When Agwyn reluctantly discarded her artillery, Elrhain nodded while huffing through his nose; finally, he stood up to the real bully.
He scoffed at the glaring little girl while chiding, 「Good. Now listen. And forget Siani, for disc’s sake. She’s got a crush on my father, not me! 」
Elrhain cleared his throat before he continued. 
「I pondered about this a lot the past few weeks. Ultimately, we are already different people than we used to be back then. But I came to the conclusion that one, it is entirely useless to worry about this. But I won’t tell you to stop worrying; just stop letting the worry take over your whole life. Because two, the most shameless part of our humanity will ensure that while we do change, it won’t fundamentally alter the person we grew up to be for seven decades on Earth. You get me? 」
Agwyn tilted her head in confusion.
「Consider it like this. You told me the clan is more like a dictatorship. I know you wanted me to recognize that no matter what farked up thing we do here, the other noble houses can’t do anything to hinder our betrothal. Regardless of my deficiencies, regardless of there being more talented kids than me that they want to pimp. Because the three Earthloch leaders and Cyra, a sky realmer, will always be our ally. Am I right?」
Agwyn nodded, not minding Cyra, who was very un-sky-realmerly trying to shift her attention away from Elrhain.
「But our worries are rooted in this very fact. What if we get used to such… privileges. I can use absolute power to do a lot of good because dissidents don’t really matter. Unlike in the Collective, you or your mother here won’t have to heed any other political faction’s standpoint. We can force development, education, science, and so many other things. And at the end of the journey, maybe a hundred or more cycles later, who will we become at that point?
Will we become authoritarian leaders? Leaders who will grow so used to our word being the mandate of God, so numb to worldly struggles that we are essentially no different from evil dictators with messiah complexes? If that happens, we will have no restraint. There will be no bottom line we won’t cross because of the greater good. Maybe one day, even our own opinions will clash.」
「No! I don’t wanna!」 Agwyn shook her head fiercely, wanting to refute his point, but Elrhain held his index finger up.
「… Power numbs. Human history has proven that again and again. And even though our bodies are dhionne, we are humans. Yet, then I realized… I was overthinking! And how that is such a wonderful thing.」
Elrhain beamed, and Agwyn looked even more bewildered.
「I read a lot of philosophy books right after I dissolved my company and… that thing with Naomi. Never stop thinking, they almost invariably say. I can use Earthloch’s unquestioned authority to forcefully bring about good. But internally, I can scream and complain and blame myself for days to come because, as a modern human, how dare I abuse such great power! Since most of the subjects of Earthloch literally cannot complain, my inner voice has to ever be the harshest critique. Wittgenstein, Nietzsche, Foucault, and even Marx said a controlled evaluation of one-self can be a whetstone for steadfast resolve.
Humans are hypocrites like that. It’s one of the things that ultimately brought us from the stone age to the space age in less than two hundred and fifty thousand years. No, actually, it is less than ten thousand years. It is a generally progressive direction even with cataclysmic human-made extinction events, especially in the last three millennia after the common era had begun. 
The hypocrisy of blatant self-blame forced us to iterate repeatedly until our selfish justifications for doing what we do best started reflecting reality, our sheer shamelessness bringing a net positive change to the world.
It may sound weird coming from me, but the very fact I worry about what I will become will be the crux of keeping me both as… Elrhain and Alex, until the day I die again. As long as you are with me, my inner critique questioning my every move and deepest desires will never weaken. As long as I am with you.」
The little girl’s eye widened, her mouth gaping bigger as understanding dawned on her tiny face.
「Until now, I have only taken the extreme negatives of what can happen. But I realize the positives are much likelier if I can tackle the negative consequences of my actions smart enough. Worrying will not solve future problems. But we can’t help but worry, can we? So let’s just commandeer our rebelling feelings and turn them into something useful. Call it a trigger, a red button, or a kill switch when we inevitably start imposing upon the dhionne what we selfishly think will be better for them. And sure, that power will definitely change me, us. However, what are the chances that I will really turn into a Hitler, Stalin, Mao or John W. Smith of 22nd century USA?」
「Or… Elon Tusk?」
「Eh, yes, him too. As long as I keep thinking, as long as the nightmares don’t lead to depression, I will keep questioning and double-guessing and never stop brooding in this life of mine. What choices we make from here will define me for years to come, yes, but my real truth or death moment has already occurred in a life not bound by the rules of this world, which will define me far more than my current choices. 
The same goes for you. We are too old, Annie. Even if we fret and speculate about what could go wrong days in and out, it is okay as long as that brooding positively affects our outward actions. I don’t want to trick myself into believing I need to be absolutely pure, like an angel, when I try to “save” Earthloch from its Palaeolithic era problems. 
However, I must always be truthful with myself and you, no matter how awful those truths may be. Even though we cannot share many things, like our reincarnation with our family, we must, at the very least, be honest.
I realize my modern values and education, my self-deprecating demons, will only serve to keep me grounded. Like a tug of war inside me by the extreme ideologists against the hedonistic dogmatist, which dictators are so eager to become. I.. I, are you listening to me?」
「Ey, yes. Go on.」
「Annie, you are embarrassing me!」 Elrhain whined, seeing the little girl’s attention shifting to her mother.
「Okay, I am sorry. I understand what you said five minutes ago, but now you are like repeating the same thing over and over again.」
「You!… may be right about that.」 Elrhain deflated, but then pumped himself up again, 「But you get my point, right? It won’t be a bad idea to solve this refugee crisis if I justify myself like this, right? Right?」
「I guess… I won’t say I am still not worried about our future. But I like that you said you will always stay with me and make babies with me and name them Elizabeth and Maximilian.」
「Eh? When did I say that?」 Elrhain started, eyeing the little girl warily.
「You must have forgotten about it when you repeated yourself like a loony. Don’t worry. The critical point is, so long as you don’t cross me for some fantasy girl out there like Siani, we won’t have any problems. It’s okay if you like Agwyn or dislike Annamaria, but you must love Annie, okay?」
「… I feel like you only cared about that specific point and not the existential crisis I just went through. Are you sure you love me?」
「Eh, what are you talking about? Of course I do. And they are the same thing, all right? If you don’t love Annie anymore, then that means you have become a heartless dictator, a future change the you of now will dread more than anything. 
In that case, I have to be your inner voice and stop you before you begin to gawk perversely at other girls. It’s the same for me, okay? If one day Ellie does something that makes Annie not love you anymore, it’s actually Annie’s fault, and you will have to stop me, okay? And as long as we keep stopping each other from not loving each other anymore, it will be fine.」
Elrhain stared at the girl, and she stared back defiantly. Finally, Elrhain admitted defeat,
「Your heart is in the right place, but I still feel like your logic is wrong.」
Agwyn squirrelled to his side and opened her arms. 
Elrhain scoffed. But then her puppy eyes got too much, and he hugged her while rolling his eyes. They didn’t really fight, but the current situation was like making up after a quarrel, which felt extremely strange to Elrhain. 
Unfortunately, the boy lost control over his poker face soon enough, and both of them burst into fits and giggles, much to the pouting Cyra’s envy.




Chapter 34 – Advent of Pre-school in a World of Cultivation

As much as Elrhain wished to just run off and hatch a billion schemes, putting all of his knowledge of civilization-building games to good use, the next one month was almost a repeat of the days before.
If one thing has changed, it’s that Agwyn had at last seriously started fixing her adorable lisp. Despite its usefulness as a tactical weapon, the fact that even Ysbail could beat her in tongue twisters really seemed to piss the little princess off. And the results were mixed, notwithstanding her dubious motivation.
"Thi-Siani! Take your filthy hands off of him!"
"Ahhh! Busyfish went crazy~"
"I am telling you, Eudav, that it is not feasible to mix ailment-shrooms with rot-flowers to use in boiled vomeat!"
Some days he and Agwyn scurried about in the cloistered hall, and other days they roamed around Lochuir under Vesiphis's strict supervision. As time went by, the two forged a deeper bond with their cousins—or entourage, as Vesiphis put it, until they were finally an integral part of their group.
Although his, their plans were put on hold, the days were enjoyable nonetheless. Siani showed them around the shire, a large encampment an hours Alleigh-ride away from Lochuir with hunters and delvers bustling about the place, hauling their monster catch like a middle-eastern marketplace. But there were no coins to be traded. Either they bartered with those who lived in the shire or contributed to the clan for knowledge and training.
Everything, was the clan's responsibility.
Eudav took them to the clan archives, where the elderly record keeper had to use magic to pry Elrhain's chubby fingers from one-of-a-kind valuable scrolls. The kind old man then let Elrhain browse through the messy piles of more mundane ones to his heart's content. 
The best thing was that the archive caves' walls were full of holes stuffed with messy unimportant piles of knowledge nuggets.
All the while Agwyn and the others crowded around the keeper, gasping loud and low at the epic stories the old man so enthusiastically shared.
The group visited many of the nearest river tributaries, mountains, and smaller lakes, which would be awakened nearing the tenth cycle of the collapse, according to the watches that accompanied them. They even got to know many of the freemen, headsmen, and lesser nobles leading their people to the evacuee camps or settlements around Lochuir's outskirts, situated near those very lakes.
They saw the people's hopes, sorrows, stubbornness, and every other emotion the disaster could possibly throw at them.
The nausea that assaulted Elrhain the first time he saw the dhionnes' tragic state faded with each time he and Agwyn stepped their tiny feet near the camps. They could now calmly take in what had occurred, and what had to be done.
Replacing the nausea was an urgency. An urgency to act.
But he knew he could not force anything. They were only three cycles one season old.
He needed to take his time, plough through the archives for ideas, and finally ensure he had the clan's full support before sharing any of his probable plans. In his mind, even the hyper-active cousins could contribute significantly as long as his strategy was doable enough.
Of course, the two didn't spend every minute touring the township with the kids. Most of the older ones had to cultivate in the Elder's Rest until the suns were at their highest. During those tedious hours, it was only Cati and Ysbail to keep them company.
Elrhain thought today would be the same. So he was reading one of the scrolls about a gheist called the 'Gadoran Plant Biter' he had brought along from the archives. 
Luckily, by now, he had a good enough grasp of the written words to quickly decipher the contents. Cultivation, magic, and other cryptic scrolls were still out of his understanding, though, with their convoluted magical runic jargon. 
Agwyn, who was bored out of her mind, was also passing the time by teaching Cati and Ysbail espionage techniques.
However,
“"C-Cultivation!”"
The kids exclaimed, their large eyes sparkling with enough fervour to fill a bucket, and Bromwyn nodded as he thumped his oversized pecs.
"That is right! The time has come for you to at last step onto the path towards supremacy! Hahahaha!"
The big guy guffawed like it was his birthday. But Elrhain didn't mind, thinking finally, finally, he could start learning magic!
The four children had been waiting in front of the Cave of Descent, one of the entrances to the Elder's rest just outside the main house's mountain, for the others to come out.
It was then that the chieftain, along with Vesiphis and Cati's fathers, exited the cave and threw a bombshell at them. 
He, Agwyn, and Cati were as happy as a bumblebee.
Ysbail, on the other hand, was pouting like a storm cloud.
"No!" she cried, "It’s not fair!”
“Come now, Ysbail. Let’s take you to Meredith. She will bring you back when their cultivation session ends.” Cati’s father, Cyn, a man with four eyes and gnarling satanic horns, patted the sobbing little girl.
“B-But why can’t I play with them?”
“Papa, can she come with us? Please?” Cati also chirped. When she realized her best friend could not come, her eagerness melted, and only tears remained in her three eyes.
The lass’s father sighed. “The ancestor’s teachings forbid anyone under three from cultivating. You know that, don’t you? It would do her more harm than good.”
“Buuuuut!” The two best friends started whimpering. It eventually got to the point where they each hugged onto Cyn’s two stumpy legs and refused to let go.
No amount of coddling or urgings could get them to do otherwise.
Elrhain sighed, before calling out to Bromwyn, “Big guy, why can’t Ysbail come with us?”
“It warms my heart that you think so much about your comrades, my stout warrior.” He grinned. 
“Alas, Ysbail is just too young. Her nodes and lattice channels are barely mature enough to handle ambient manna, let alone the cultivation regimes the scions of the main house experience under the shaman’s guidance.”
“… no, I didn’t ask why she could not cultivate with us. Why can’t she at least come down with us?”
Bromwyn started, then tilted his head. “What else would she do in the Elder’s rest, if not cultivate?”
Elrhain groaned, “She can simply accompany us, no? Maybe she can wait by the side or anywhere the ambient manna is weaker.”
“Can I?” “Can she?” The little girl in question and her three-eyed friend picked up on their conversation and started begging as annoyingly and as cutely as they could.
“That… can actually be arranged. As long as she doesn’t directly enter the Cultivation platform.” Bromwyn scratched his head awkwardly. “I must confess, I completely forgot to consider this. We’ve never brought down children to the Elder’s rest before to do… nothing.”
Elrhain patted his legs. “Don’t worry about it. Thinking has never been your strong suit.”
Bromwyn laughed, “Indeed. Though, might not most consider this a waste of time? What do you suppose, Cyn?”
“If it can get her to stop ruining my kilt, why not.” The other man shrugged, pointing at Ysbail as she slathered his expensive-looking gheistfur kilt with tears and snot.
Elrhain pushed his point even further.
“Waste of time? What else is a 2-cycle old kid supposed to do other than eat, sleep and poop? You already said she can’t cultivate. Unlike servant children, she doesn’t have to help out with family matters at such a young age. And besides,” Elrhain added, “We can just let her do something actually productive in the meantime. Like learning to read and write.”
“Huh?” Ysbail stopped. Her eyes blinking rapidly.
“Maybe get a learned servant to impart her how to recognize Uorian symbols? I bet by the time she is old enough to cultivate, she’d be smarter than Siani.”
“HUH?”
Cyn’s eyes lit up. And so did Bromwyn and Cadwell’s.
“Certainly! That would be a much better use of young Ysbail’s time than accompanying her mother. Actually, we should adopt this for when all babes are two cycles old in our main house!”
Ysbail broke down into tears again, but for an entirely different reason. 
Alas, what has been decided by a leader cannot be taken back by the tears of an adorable little girl alone. 
Thus, despite her flailing, she was dragged down to the Elder’s rest with the giddy Cati, while Agwyn whispered to Elrhain with an imperceptible grin,
「You evil little bastard. You doomed them all.」
Only she had noticed the insidious smile that crept onto Elrhain’s face as he peered at Ysbail, the dim luminescence of the cave casting grim shadows on his face.
***
Their second time entering the Elder’s rest was much like the first. The adults carried them down most of the journey, and they didn’t delve as deep this time.
About twenty minutes later, they reached a large underground cavern with tranquil streams running down the ground. The cascading waterfalls backdropping a large platform suspended in mid-air by chains at the centre of this space, which was connected to many tunnels of the cavern’s walls with floating stone steps.
The platform was of blue crystals, green algae, and grey stones, circular in nature and reaching about twenty meters high. Stairs covered in moss, cracked and uneven yet evidently held together by magic, connected the platform to the cavern floor below.
Elrhain had to stop himself from gawking. 
He spotted the other kids and heard Cati squeal like an excited kitten while Ysbail snorted with twice the cuteness.
Most of the kids on the platform sat crossed legged. Each had a glowing circle underneath them, which evidently helped with cultivation. Cadfael was also there, but he didn’t notice the new arrivals, thanks to what Elrhain assumed was a deep meditation.
A few of the younger kids, like Siani and Cadough, rested to the side, their faces breaking into giant smiles when they saw them.
There was also a dwarfish man Elrhain had met at the gathering the month before, who also sat cross-legged on a boulder at the very front of the cultivating kids with a stern glare in his eyes.
When he saw Elrhain’s group walk in, he lazily waved a hand at them.
Bromwyn waved back.
Five minutes later, Cati, Elrhain and Agwyn were seated on top of their own glowing circle, while Cyn had to drag back Ysbail at the foot of the stairs as she kept trying to run up.
Without so much as a proper reception, the man, Tudor Arente Earthloch as introduced by Bromwyn, officially started the three’s first steps in cultivation.
“Heiress,” He sighed, “You cannot share one manna gathering circle with the heir. There is not enough manna for the both of you.”
It was the third time he had said that, and Agwyn bashfully giggled while sitting back down on her own circle.
“Good.” Tudor smiled. “Now, listen carefully to the words I say. Young Cati, please. Stop getting distracted by Ysbail.”
Elrhain really wanted to pat the guy on the back. It was not easy trying to coerce overexcited kids to concentrate on one thing. If he were in Tudor’s place, he would have already committed the crime of spanking them into obedience.
The short man must have had a lot of experience, seeing as he was the official clan tutor and all for the main house. His temper was even, and his face barely twitched at their antics.
“Close your eyes,” Tudor directed, and Elrhain complied. “Heiress, and heir-”
“You can call us Gwyn and Rhain!”
“… yes, Gwyn and Rhain. Do you remember the sensations you felt when you received the blessing from the spirits?”
“… Kinda?”
“Kinda, will be enough,” Elrhain swore he could hear a note of amusement in Tudor’s voice. 
“The manna gathering circles underneath you, yes the glowing circles, they will send up similar particles of manna for your use. Of course, they will lack the ichor of the spirits or the quality, so you will need to focus harder to feel them. But the sensation will be quite similar to that time. Delve deeper when you grasp the manna and do not let your mind wander. 
As for young Cati, your family should have already taught you how to feel the manna using your eyes, right? No, don’t open them. This time, I want you to sense the manna without their assistance.”
Elrhain was acquainted with meditation. It was part of the school curriculum back on Earth. Mindfulness was essential for daily practice, alongside compassion, spirituality and stillness at movement, depending on the person. He could not do the latter while sitting cross-legged, even if he somewhat wanted to try that right now.
This felt a lot like guided meditation, minus the magical props he was using.
But for now, he simply followed Tudor’s guidance. He could experiment with mixing Earth meditation with fantasy meditation later. 
“Totemic Soul, Marrow Core, Spirit Totem, and Ichoric Heart Chamber. Ignore the latter three for today. Because for the initiation to manna, and the most important opening lesson I will teach you now depends solely on the first. It is your link to find, harvest, and cultivate manna. Your other self that lives in the astral realm as you do on the material disc.”
For the first few minutes, Elrhain was lost. He couldn’t spot them. Neither manna nor this totemic soul thingy. 
The slow underground wind and sound of water, the gentle breaths coming from his left and right, and Tudor’s gruff voice. Elrhain could visualize each and every happening in the cavern, his supernatural senses taking in information like a sponge, his dhionne brain filtering through them like a computer.
Yet, the orbs of manna were nowhere to be found.
He sat there, minute after minute. Just when his mind was about to wander away for the nth time back to a novel he had once read, he sensed something.
Like spotting a clue from the corner of his eyes, but more fleeting, and with all his senses, not just sight. He doubled down on the feeling, but gently, as to not scare it away. 
Soon, the boredom and emptiness left his mind. What replaced it was marvel and novelty.
Like fireworks in the darkness of his mind, they appeared simultaneously. One moment it was a black canvas, the next, he felt as if he was a god staring down at himself from the heavens above.
He saw teeny-tiny fireflies, millions of them rising up from below his body and scattering into the void where his senses could not reach. 
Blue, green and brown; red, gold and purple. They came in every hue and every shade of both visible and invisible light. Always dancing, always mixing.
Manna, he realized.
Like the orbs gifted by the spirits, but so much smaller, so many more. And within the middle of that upward shower, he saw an unmoving darkness in the shape of a tiny little dhionne. It had a dim constellation of stars inside. They were different from the manna particles; they felt empty. 
These stars sat static. 
As he observed them, a thought popped up in his mind, or was it Tudor’s voice? He could not tell.
‘If the manna comes from a source, then might these be the sink?’
Yet, unlike the dancing, vigorous manna, these stars inside the toddler-shaped void were weak, blinking, and had a hollow core filled with thick toxic sludge.
None of the manna entered that silhouette of darkness, flowing around it as if it was a jutting rock lying in the way of a raging torrent.
That darkness was his totemic soul.









Chapter 35 - Nodes

“Your goal in cultivation is to capture part of the world, the natural manna that flows from the very disc to the void beyond, and make it a part of your blood, bones, and soul.” 
Tudor’s voice had a hypnotic twang to it. He did not speak too slow or too fast. Not too loud or too quiet.
It was just perfect. 
It guided Elrhain as he tried to reach out a filament of his mind towards one of the thousands of particles of manna that drifted past in his inner vision.
However, the manna refused his invitation. It was repulsed, afraid, or shy even. 
He failed, and failed some more.
But with every try, his grasp crept closer. A part of the repulsion changed to attraction, and some of the manna seemed to almost… warm up to him.
“Every person has their own talent, and no two are perfectly identical. It is the bloodline, the spirits, and for most, it is a sort of unseen luck. 
Us Earthlochs, for example, excel in the ways of water, whether it is actually using water or melding the concept of water into other manners of magic. Almost every child, noble or servant born to us, has at least a morsel of ability to grasp concepts relating to water with their manna. 
The flow, the wave, the flood. The cold, the cascade, the evaporation, and so many more that even the ancestors dare not claim they know. But water, as grand as it is, is not always at the forefront of our magic. Some use the knowledge of water to control ice. For some, even the wind, the shadows, and the enemy's blood are not out of the question. 
I want you to concentrate on the tiny nodes of stars inside your Totemic Soul. They will give you a thirsty manna-starved feeling.”
Elrhain moved his inner vision to the him-shaped void. The static constellation of dim stars within that void was as clear as diamonds to him, even if most of them were fainter than the manna outside. 
“Nodes.” Tudor said, “They are where you will store, refine, and produce your own flavour of manna. They are the projection of your physical body’s apertures into the astral plane, and vice versa.”
Elrhain noticed that not all nodes were of the same hue, saturation, or value.
The vast majority were various shades of blue, brown, and green, with some nasty fleshy red, pink, and violet nodes shining almost a translucent light mixed in here and there.
Yet, there was never an utterly pure colour. Some were lighter, some were darker. Some had just enough saturation to look cartoony. Some were so washed out that the node’s mix of colours was impossible to tell with a casual glance.
“The nodes in your Totemic Soul correspond to the diverse, infinite aspects of manna found throughout the vast Fanas Diosca and beyond, whether they be singular aspects like pure water, or combinations like steam and ice. 
They can be the natural aspects such as fire and wind, or they can be so mystical that even the scrolls cannot correctly explain them, such as the power of mind or the passing of time.
Magic that includes thought-reading, truth scrying, and the change of seasons falls into these categories. Even if you can notice the influence of natural elements within the latter, such as winter ice or summer heat, their make differs vastly from simple ice and fire magic.
Manna is complex like that. 
Aspects can also be spiritual, divine, demonic, and so on. Perhaps one day after the collapse ends, you will have the fortune to visit discs far outside our own. 
You will witness unimaginably strange and varied uses of manna in magic unique to those foreign lands. It will make you suspect if manna should even be classified into aspects like we do here. In some discs, in fact, they regard manna as nothing more than the food one eats to do magic.
For example, on certain discs, every dead object can grow a living spirit with its own particular aspect of magic, which in our disc rarely happens. But similar to this phenomenon, the nodes within your Totemic Soul, too, can lead to never-before-seen magic if you pair it with never-before-seen combinations of manna, cultivation method, ichor, and Spirit Totem. Not that I would advise you blindly do so.
Before utilising the manna, the only real clue we have is their colour and a gut feeling that can come only with experience.”
‘Mind, time, demonic….’
Elrhain didn’t know what colour these weird magic concepts straight out of a fantasy book would have, but the closer he looked, the more bizarre the colours of his own nodes got. 
The brightest of the lot, about sixty at a cursory glance, numbering perhaps less than one-tenth of the total, gave off mainly a water-logged impression. As if he was wandering in the forest without shoes, his bare feet dipped into the damp soil—the chirps of critters all around and a primal sense of belonging rising from deep within his chest.
It wasn’t uncomfortable, just out of place.
The feeling wasn’t of pure water. In Elrhain’s magical senses, they appeared like a combination of water with softwood and moist earth. Like a forest or a swamp, maybe even a flooded lowland. 
And that was only when he tried to feel the brightest of nodes. When he took in all of them, one thousand nodes if Tudor was to be believed, together, the feeling changed into something completely unknown. Something he could not put his finger on at all, even disregarding the slight headache.
The overall ‘aspect’ was changing. The current untrained Elrhain could not set it into a clear image. 
Malleable, never absolute, with infinite permutations. 
Depending on which order he concentrated on the nodes, Elrhain could make out forests, oceans, a little bonsai tree, or even a broccoli breakfast.
“Every dhionne starts cultivation by first observing their Totemic Soul for long periods, and capturing which path of aspects most suit them judging by the colours. 
Only then must he try to absorb ambient manna of roughly the same colour and feed them into the Totemic Soul, depending on which nodes he wishes to ignite. 
This process also happens naturally from the moment of your birth as you eat and drink. That is why many mortals can ignite one, two, or even five hundred nodes by virtue of their environment alone. 
Cultivation hastens that process many, many folds. For the sake of learning, we shall initiate you on that very task today, guiding manna into a node. 
Fret not; I am here to protect you in case anything goes wrong.
Also, never try to feed fire manna to a node that favours water. Instead, choose manna from nature that gives you the cold of snow, the flow of lakes, the calm of dew-drops, and even the impression of an agile fish if you so wish. 
Keep nature in harmony, and your Totemic Soul will not splinter. 
To reach the Earthen realm, this step is crucial. Since a harmonious Totemic Soul is much easier to realign using an ichor. 
But I digress. Let us return to the matter at hand. The formation array under you will capture manna from all over the Loch Sagathan area for your use. It is something only the main house of Earthloch can enjoy.
So, remember to always be grateful for our plentiful bounty, to the ancestors, to the spirits, and most importantly, to our good fortune.”
Elrhain had been trying to capture manna particles that glowed the brightest, the gold and silver ones, to feed the nodes out of curiosity. It did not go smoothly. 
So this time, he snuck part of his grubby little mind hands towards some of the more common, teal coloured particles.
There was still a bit of resistance, yet the flow of manna changed ever so slightly. 
Finally, after a few more tries, the first small piece entered his Totemic Soul.
‘So for manna, I can control the particles hued similar to nodes better than the rest. The so-called, twice the result with half the effort….’
He tried to direct the manna towards some of the dimmer nodes. The process was tedious and rigid, and soon sweat started dripping from his forehead.
The manna was prone to randomness. It always tried to interact with the first node it encountered, which often resulted in pricks of either ecstasy or pain, making him positively confused. 
Sometimes, the manna would fade away before reaching the destination. Not to even mention what happened when the manna entered nodes of non-similar colours.
‘But that means, while particles of non-teal coloured manna are harder to control, it is much easier to feed into a non-teal coloured node the teal manna I can easily capture. Like the red and purple ones I have…. So bloody confusing, aye!’
To make matters even more baffling, the interaction was wholly different every time manna entered a node. Even if the manna and nodes were of the same colour, sometimes it would feel cold and sometimes slimy.
Cultivation, as it stood, was not so fun at all.
“I am sure you have heard stories of past heroes. When I was your age, my mother and grandmother had sung them to me too. 
How they took in rare manna from treasured lands with oh so much hardship! Despite their natural talents being in certain aspects, they excelled in many others. 
While it is true that even wholly unrelated aspects of manna and nodes can create epoch-changing results, most of it is undoubtedly because of once-in-a-million-cycle lucky coincidences. 
Very few can successfully replicate them without the hero’s personal guidance, and most die while trying these feats themselves. Even if the hero leaves behind his findings in scrolls, his and his descendants' body and soul will ultimately not be exactly the same.
This is why there are stories of so many great clans descended from such heroes declining millennia after millennia.
The underlying principle of the world is too complex for our feeble souls to comprehend. Sometimes, things can start fantastic when your realm is low. But soon, you realise that you have only wasted your limited talents pursuing dreams of delusions. 
Remember this always, the world of cultivation and the act of cultivation itself are full of uncountable dangers both within and without. It is always better to be safe than to be dead. Even we, the Earthlochians, will not tell our sons and daughters to follow the ancestors’ teaching line by line. Learn from them, but recognise that you are not them.”
‘How… progressive?’ Elrhain wowed, reproaching himself mentally for thinking that all dhionne were stuck with monarchical, Palaeolithic views. 
Only most of them were. 
And he completely agreed with Tudor’s point while writhing in a moment in shame. He forced his lazy mind to stop letting manna do what it wanted within his real estate. 
‘Fun or not, better than being dead.’ 
The interactions felt extraordinarily unique when he initially let the manna flow naturally into his Totemic Soul. But as electrifying as it was when a particle of indigo clashed with a pink-hued node, the dopamine was not worth the long-term harm of what Tudor foreshadowed. 
It was still too soon to arrive at any concrete conclusions about any of this, of course. But perhaps experimenting on it would be more complicated than Elrhain had initially assumed. Not when the price of failure was literally death.
Yet, why did he have to swim against the current? 
He didn’t want to be such a hero with a ticking time bomb forcing him to act, to get better at a hundred times the speed of a normal dhionne.
He could experiment plenty by simply leading teal manna on a bluish-green node. Then, maybe, maybe the next time, he could lead lime-coloured manna—something significantly harder to control, onto the same node. 
By the looks of it, he would have a wealth of time in the future to do so. And he would need that ‘wealth of time’. Judging by how absolutely unchanged the dim nodes' luminosity were, even after thirty minutes worth of cultivation, it would take many cycles of practice to light up all thousand.
So, Elrhain decided, slow and steady was the way for him.
“There are ten thousand ways cultivation can go wrong. It can take tens of cycles to light even a hundred nodes for less talented servants with limited resources. 
Even lesser nobles cannot consistently produce dhionne of high cultivation every generation. However, we high nobles have the gifts of the spirits and the ancestors. 
Our well-studied cultivation techniques, ritual and array formations, and alchemic elixirs will lower the danger, hasten the speed, and compound the power of our manna in spells and magic. 
It is enough to bridge the gap in talent and the very reason we stand at the apex of all dhionne, with Sky realmers in every generation and sometimes…. legends that can break through beyond the sky.
But today, you shall cultivate without the help of any such cultivation resources, other than the manna gathering circle. 
This is the primal path the ancestors had taken before their enlightened minds produced wondrous cultivation techniques like the [Earthloch’s River of All Seasons] and the [Everlasting Aqua-night Domain]. Know of their sacrifice and the blood and tears they have shed so that we do not have to.”
And so, the cultivation session went on. 
Particle after particle of manna entered the nodes within Elrhain’s Totemic Soul. The boy himself grew both fatigued and invigorated at the same time.
Then, something changed at the two-hour mark.
At first, it was a slight prickle on his left chest. Then suddenly, his bloodstreams were on fire. The Totemic Soul, the pathways the manna had travelled in, started leaking light.
It went from blue to purple, then a dark crimson red.
When suddenly,
He opened his eyes and collapsed with a loud shriek. 
He felt as if the cavern was devoid of air, and his lungs were plunged into lava. In those horrible few moments of pain, his body almost burnt up from the inside out. 
And then, just as abruptly, the pain vanished as fast as it had come. Elrhain’s vision cleared of red, and he could breathe again. It wasn’t until five more minutes later that his mind calmed enough to take in his surroundings and…
…he noticed the anomaly. 
Elrhain’s body was covered in a shield of manna connected to Tudor’s outstretched hand. It was the same for Cati and Agwyn, who were still in cultivation.
Tudor stood before them with a slight grin on his face, gesturing Elrhain to sit down in silence.
The boy complied.
Cati broke out of her cultivation about forty minutes afterwards, and Agwyn lasted an hour. Both of them burst into tears and kept wailing in confusion for a few good minutes.
It would take even longer for them to stop pouting at what a bully Tudor was, much to the man’s amusement. 
Elrhain had been examining some of the runic carvings on the platform in the meanwhile. Still, he focused back on Tudor as soon as Agwyn had calmed herself.
The girl scuttled up beside him the first chance she sniffed, and this time Tudor didn’t stop her tomfoolery.
The man spoke with no judgement in his voice, only advice.
“Today, I have protected you with my magic. As I will until you successfully reach earthen, when you have ignited all one thousand nodes and integrate the spirit’s ichor in your ichoric heart chamber. 
By that time, you would have familiarised yourself with the lattice channels that connect one node in your Totemic Soul to another, and hopefully, learned enough sense not to blindly fumble through cultivation. 
But never forget that this blind fumbling is precisely what the servants without our means experience. 
Do not waste this privilege.
Let this be your first lesson in cultivation: even when you think all is going well while you mindlessly follow your instincts, hunches, and cryptic tales of heroes creating their own techniques out of thin air and sheer perseverance, nothing is as it seems.
Cultivation, is not for everyone. It is not for the talented yet thoughtless. Even a diligent waste can live longer than a fool chasing grandeur. It is okay if you are unambitious. A measured pace can take you so much further than someone with an unstable foundation. Living is always, always better than dying.”
Tudor sighed as if recalling a terrible memory, then clapped.
The other kids, including Vesiphis and Cadfael, who had perhaps finished their own cultivation as Elrhain was spacing out with the runes on the circle, gathered around from where they sat.
“That is why you have me, the high shaman of initiation, to teach you the ways of cultivation. Cati, Gwyn, and Rhain. This will be a long journey, especially with the coming collapse. I only wish that you can keep your heads calm and wills firm. But,”
The man then walked towards them, picking all three up with his burly arms. He placed Agwyn on his shoulder and hugged Elrhain and Cati to his chest, much to the latter’s glee.
The smile on Tudor’s face could almost rival Dofnald’s, in a more friendly uncle upstairs kind of way.
“That’s enough of cultivation for today. You three did a fantastic job initiating yourselves, especially in your first attempt. 
Let us now head to the tranquil pools and wash away all the filth and grime, shall we? Your cousins have been waiting for a while, you know.”
Only then did Elrhain notice the oily impurities covering his body. How had he not noticed that? Was it the dim glow of the cavern or because he didn’t feel any discomfort on his skin?
He didn’t smell funny either. 
Elrhain ran a finger on his left arm to smear some of the oily substance and gave it a light sniff…
… before vomiting all over a dumbfounded Tudor and horrified Cati’s faces.




Chapter 36 – Monsoon Came too Soon

「Ellie, can you stop sulking?」 Agwyn nudged the boy lightly with her forehead. But Elrhain ignored her. His face was buried into the cushion while his body writhed in indignation.
He had the right to pout whenever he wanted, for however long he wanted. Especially since,
‘Ahhhh!’
Elrhain quickly screamed over the memories in his stupid brain.
「It’s fine. Kids puke on people all the time!」 If Agwyn was trying to comfort him, she was doing a terrible job.
「B-But Cati keeps telling everyone she meets that I bullied her, that I puked on her. How am I supposed to show my face to them tomorrow!」 
「Well…」 Agwyn stopped. She twirled a lock of her hair before answering, 「Um, how about you apologize to her? Or give her a present, perhaps? You know, playing cute like this is a privilege only adorable kids like us have. We have to thoroughly take advantage of it.」
Elrhain remained reticent, and Agwyn didn’t bother him anymore. She put her own pillow beside his and rested her tiny head on it with a giggle.
It was nearing midnight. The two would have already been asleep at this point, but Elrhain kept groaning and shuffling left and right, so Agwyn could not sleep either.
The occasional critter of crickets and swish of the breeze had already taken over the call of the birds and murmurs of dhionne. The ambient sounds of nature had not an enemy to clash, so their force remained mild, their tone remained soothing.
It made Elrhain’s girly groans even more annoying.
But he had already stopped his exasperating guttural complaints that didn’t cease for hours after Cyra had teased him silly during today’s dinner. To Agwyn, this was a big plus.
Five, or perhaps ten silent minutes passed, and Elrhain finally unburied his face from the cushion.
He looked at Agwyn’s beaming face with his big blue slit eyes. The girl laid on her side watching him, before nearing closer for a snuggle.
Elrhain sniffed.
「It was…. So bad.」
「There, there.」
「It stank like the armpit stench of a million obese gamers. My nose, I feel like I have been violated, wah!」
「It’s okay, Ellie. Sometimes, everybody makes horrible mistakes.」
「D-Do we have to continue cultivating and pushing stuff like that out from our bodies? What if some come out of the inner walls of our nose? That’s like… Cultivation is suicide!」
「Aww. I’m sure it will be fine.」 Agwyn moved even closer and pecked his forehead, hugging him tightly. 「Uncle Tudor said today would be the worst. We are so young that our bodies don’t have that much impurity. So I am sure the intensity of it will go down from now.」
「R-really?」
「Yup! Trust me. Dhionne who cultivate later at life discharge so much of the stuff, it comes out gunky black! Ours was really transparent, right? And before bringing it up way close to smell it, we could not notice the stink at all!」
「Yeah! That’s right. We gotta be vigilant!」
「That’s my Ellie. God, I love you so much.」
「Thanks.」 Elrhain felt as if a thousand tons of wet socks had been pulled out from his mind. He was tired; he wished to sleep now.
So the boy completely let himself go in Agwyn’s soft embrace and took off on a journey to the dreamlands. This time, any nightmare, whether ghastly or stinky, was fought away by a superheroine who appeared in his dark visions with magical lights.
The cutest little girl scared silly all the nasty, putrid monsters with her selection of high impact Eau De Parfum!
***
“God.”
“What?”
“I had the weirdest dream last night.”
““Eh! What is it? What is it!”” Agwyn, Cati, and even Ysbail, who had somehow snuck her way up to the platform, kept pestering him like three chipmunks.
Before he could answer though, a sullen old servant stomped his way to them and dragged the wailing Ysbail away from the manna saturated cultivation stage towards a small gathering of children down below the stairs.
Apparently, they had Uorian alphabets to learn. Both the noble and the servant toddlers.
Cati looked sad for precisely three seconds before she and Agwyn resumed bombarding him with questions.
Elrhain sighed, then re-taled the tale of how he was chased around by a giant multi-mouthed frog made out of fish poop all throughout Lochuir. Then suddenly, when all hope was lost, Agwyn came in from the sky and finished off the Lovecraftian terror with essential oil from Kokutar sweet blossoms.
Now, his audience, including Siani and Cadough, laughed along with every wonky step of his frightening dream. Though he must admit, he played up some parts a tad too much.
…but as long as it got laughs, right?
Elrhain also noticed that Cati had none of the spite from the calamity the day before and once again thanked Agwyn in his heart.
Well, he did get up super early this morning and, with Agwyn’s ingenious help, drew the prettiest looking anime portrait of the three-eyed girl he could in a super expensive looking parchment.
The angry little girl was at first utterly unwilling to even talk with him this morning. But the present completely blew away any animosity she had. The two reconciled with a hug, as witnessed by Agwyn, who sported an extremely unwilling expression. 
She had supervised the making-up process all the way through with bloodshot eyes. If Elrhain hadn’t let Cati go from the hug before those three seconds ended, he reckoned there’d be a bloodbath by now. 
Or at least some biting and hair pulling, and perhaps not speaking to each other for the day before the two little girls inevitably made up.
At first, it was Ysbail and Cati who were the best doublets. Now it was Agwyn, Cati and Ysbail, the triumvirate of air-headed tiny trouble-toddlers with Elrhain the grumpy guardian tagging along.
Two of the three trouble-toddlers were showing off the portrait to all the cousins, uncles, aunties, and even servants they could spot with their five ominous eyes. Their chests puffed and noses flared with both glory and levity.
Hilarities aside, honestly, Elrhain was so proud of Agwyn. She’d been getting the hang of her emotions better lately.
Even today, after Tudor had commenced their second cultivation session, she had only tried to sit together with him in the same circle twice. 
One less than yesterday! Which was a tremendous improvement!
‘Finally,’ Elrhain mused, ‘the baby girl’s growing up.’
******
Summer was ending, but the heat blazed hotter.
Looking up at the sky of Lochuir, one could see a firmament of brilliant blue. Yet the lustre of the heavens was harsher on the eyes now. The light was more luminescent. It was fiercer as if its fury would crash down on the disc any minute.
Recently, the frequency of rainfall had gone up. The new mountain trails were muddy and looked more like a bog, and the Aenraad river had spilt over on the shores of Lochuir. The forest vegetation all around refused to be disposed of even after being cut down again and again. Numerous critters and insects had found their way inside the township with a mission to vex the inhabitants to sleeplessness.
Even the fragrance of fresh flowering fruits could not take away from the dreary mood that covered the populace.
The clan had to hasten the pace of building new shelters, distributing resources, and electing leaders. Dingy huts and shabby houses now occupied a few of the peaks around some of the smaller lakes of Lochuir, which stuck out like sore thumbs among the lush jungle canopy.
It broke the beautiful scenery even further when the residents had to carry up buckets full of sludge and stones to mend the rickety new villages every few days.
Even with magic, there was a limit to how strong they could build them to war against nature. The high realm shamans and mages also had better things to do than settlement construction.
The manna-rioghs all around the territory were growing restless. Now, almost every group of evacuees that reached Lochuir came in with wounds and tragedy.
Death rose, and so did the demand for food.
The settlements nearest to the township and shire grew cramped, filthy, and had daily fights happening for reasons both small and large. More mountains had to be fashioned into new villages to suppress the rising conflicts.
But even with the chaos, there was a peculiar kind of order that kept the lid from blowing off. Was it Earthloch’s unquestionable might? Was it a sense of unity amidst crises?
Whatever it might be, it helped the upper echelon of the clan tackle the multitude of problems cropping up in timely manners, step by step.
So that even the noble kids could wander around the vast territory of Lochuir without too much risk.
Today, Eudav, Arfon and Vesiphis also accompanied the four as Cati, Ysbail, Agwyn, and Elrhain rode on top of Alleigh, the magic husky in their daily Lochuir spelunking. 
The rest had something else to do. Apparently, Siani’s mother would take them to see the hunt of some rare gheist. The younger kids had also wanted to go, but the adults would have none of their grievances. They mercilessly stuff them on top of Alleigh and ordered the Pengyte to run around the settlements to keep the annoying brats busy.
Even puppy dog eyes were useless. Even when Ysbail and Cati joined in to buff their pitiful pleading, it could not leave a nick in Cadwell’s cold-blooded defence.
The shamanic duo wanted nothing to do with hunts either, while Vesiphis refused to let the heir and heiress wander around without proper supervision. 
Thus, they could only grumble in resentment as they stepped foot onto one of the newest mountains where a make-shift village was being set up.






Chapter 37 - Waterproof Alchemy 

“Careful, my lady!” Vesiphis grabbed the collar of Agwyn’s robe, foiling the girl’s master plan to run off to adventure for the 8th time that day. 
The little girl whined, for she rightfully demanded to lead an investigation on precisely how magic was used to build the dhionne shelters. However, the half-finished structures looked much too rickety to let the clan’s only princess wander around inside.
Truth be told, Elrhain was also curious. But he had better self-control than his weird roommate. 
The boy threw another strip of dried meat towards the drooling Alleigh. The husky was as silly as ever, its ears drooping pitifully the moment Agwyn jumped off its back for other fun things.
So Elrhain could only cheer it up with lots of food and intense head pats, much to the amazement, or possibly horror, of the locals.
The men and women of the settlement strummed and thrummed all over the mountainside, only sending some occasional uneasy glances towards the visitors. They all seemed to be from the same tribe judging by their crests, and they were all positively terrified of Alleigh, for God knows what.
But that didn’t stop the local dhionne from doing what had to be done.
The shouts of men breaking open boulders warred with the cries of the women dragging up giant bundles of timbre to where the new village was gradually taking shape.
Even the lush flora couldn’t keep the dust and soot from rising, as the construction was in full gear. 
Dhionne didn’t need cranes and bulldozers. Their sturdy physique and mastery of spells were enough for any sort of grunt work.
They stacked stones inside the holes they had dug on the mountain floor as the foundation. Then, they inserted wooden stumps wherever necessary as pillars or beams. Clay and mud served as a simple cement, filling the gaps between the planks and rocks, which acted as the walls. 
Some dhionne used dried grass and straws to line their roofs, while others used fresh green leaves, each bigger than Elrhain’s body, to keep their new homes protected from the wind and rain.
Finally, giant vines taken from the colossal trees of the primaeval forests of Earthloch bound together the ramshackle structures as the last line of defence. 
Elrhain felt a tug on his sleeve and saw Agwyn pointing in a particular direction with bated breath. Only to see one teen girl lifting up boulders with nothing but unguided manna coursing through her meridians. 
‘Holy electrolytes!’
Yet, he knew this was but the most unrefined use of manna. It was something which only mortals without proper cultivation techniques employed, mortals who accounted for the vast majority of Earthloch’s servant population.
However, what amazed Elrhain the most was the myriad of magic the cultivator dhionnes employed, their efficiency far higher than a crude servant’s. 
It wasn’t anything new to the other children, but even the most basic spells that could raise a rock spike or shape mud into walls were highly novel to the two foreign souls.
Though one fact Elrhain had just learnt about spells from Vesiphis disappointed him greatly when he speculated some of their possible uses. 
It would seem that once a dhionne cultivated manna, they could not just immediately manifest magical effects however they wished. 
Spells needed strict chants and gestures to cast correctly. Only with many cycles of practice could untalented servants manipulate the effects of common spells, such as [Raise Rock] or [Mud Shaping] to a certain extent.
According to Vesiphis, the kid proud of his vaster cultivation knowledge, only earthen realmers and above could even dream of freely manipulating elemental magic solely by their will alone. 
And even then, it was a chore to do that without sufficient training. 
Unless one was a Naeman witch, of course. Individuals who could simply sneeze, and it would mysteriously turn an onion into a living, breathing unicorn.
Mundane spells for ordinary mortals depended not on the uniqueness of their cultivation roots or if they chose to properly ignite all their nodes to reach the earthen realm. 
They could, of course, do that, and it would increase the effectiveness of the spell. 
But spells didn’t need all that sophistry.
They had pre-selected steps that a dhionne needed to follow, nodes and channels in certain regions of their totemic souls they had to activate to create extremely specific frames. After which, the process would actualize the effect of the spell for a price of manna. 
Almost like pre-packaged scripts written in python 91.01 that anybody could learn to use, regardless of if they even understood the logic. 
They could even put fire manna into water nodes and still cast water spells with them. But obviously, this case will cause the power of spells such as [Aqua Ball] to be extremely weak.
Then again, mages would fling their middle fingers at whoever claimed spells were for losers grasping for straws. Like all else systematic practitioners did, they had to elevate spells to such heights that apparently even the founders dare not offend the strongest of them.
… which immediately cheered Elrhain up, as he now knew there was an Archmage in South-Eastern Uorys Diosca who could gather light into a spear of destruction. The same spell had once erased an army of Horuxi invaders from the edge of the disc.
‘Isn’t that a friggin’ laser beam?! Ugh, I want one soooo bad!’ The boy bit his lower lips in both envy and anticipation.
Eudav also mentioned practitioners like the wicked devil conjurers, rigid druids, and priests of cryptic deities who preached to do away with spirits. Regardless of good or evil, these dhionne professions each had their unique brands of spells and augurs Elrhain was dying to get his hands on. 
The boy was so busy fantasizing that he almost didn’t hear the raucous shouting coming from the direction the mountain trail led to. 
The kids quickly exchanged glances before hurrying towards whatever was happening on the now excited husky.
At the hamlet's east end, huge metal cauldrons were lined up side by side, boiling with ominous mixtures spewing out nasty chemical scents from the brew within.
Arfon and Eudav squealed, and before anyone could stop them, they sprinted to the cauldrons the moment they came into view. 
The two fancily dressed dhionne standing there immediately put a hold on their loud disagreement with sour expressions. They disguised even that as soon as they recognized the tiny interlopers’ identities. 
The two boys obviously cared none of the social etiquettes and excitedly bombarded the younger of the arguing duo, a shaman by the looks of his robes, question after question after question. 
They were not daunted at all by the noble who was now standing to the side awkwardly.
In fact, it was the noble, a spindly man with shaggy green hair and an ape-like snout who stood at attention at the sight of the children. More precisely, when he noticed Agwyn and Elrhain lazing on top of Alleigh.
“Master shaman, what are you doing in those big pots?” Elrhain asked after getting down from the husky. He stood on his tiptoes, trying to take a closer look at whatever voodoo or witchcraft was going on.
The shaman first bowed. “Respected P-prince, this one is just an un-mentored apprentice from the Lochuir Shire. I am yet far from being a full-fledged shaman. And to answer your question, it is House Glue.”
““House glue?””
The apprentice nodded. “To help the people here build the hamlet. When constructing a dwelling, it is mixed with the mud to make it sturdier, to ward off damage by the storms and rains.”
““Ohhh!”” 
“How does it work?” Arfon beat Elrhain to the punch.
“That,” the apprentice thought the question over as he stirred the mixture some more. He ladled a bit out for a sniff before pouring it back in. It would yet take some time.
“Do the noble young masters know of Rubra trees?”
The kids nodded while Eudav held up a hand, shouting, “Yes! Those giant leaves they are using to make the roofs, those are Rubra leaves, right?”
“Correct. How perceptive, my lord. As expected of the main house’s scions. Yes, they are indeed the same. Rubra leaves have a certain magical characteristic that repels water. Also, its sap can stick two stones so firmly together that if enough is applied, it can even thwart the full-powered charge of an adult Kaloxen.”
“But why is that magical? Normal leaves and saps also have water repellent and adhesive properties.” Elrhain asked, and the apprentice chuckled.
“Certainly, they do. But if you use a normal tree leaf as material to line a roof, it might last this monsoon at most before it ruptures and rots. Then it will have to be changed every cycle anew. 
But a Rubra leaf, if properly prepared, can last tens of cycles, if not more. The inherent magical aspect of the tree makes water shy away from even touching its leaves. Here, watch.”
The apprentice had a servant bring back a stack of giant Rubra leaves. He took one and placed the rest beside one of the cauldrons. Then, holding the leaf parallel to the kids’ eye levels, he gently sprayed some water on it from a waterskin. 
The kids huddled around eagerly to watch. Alleigh, who was left behind, dishearteningly sniffed the leaves in the left-over pile before sneezing as he jerked his head away.
Elrhain gasped in shock as his superhuman vision caught the water droplets float above the leaves and not touch the surface membrane at all. It was completely different from the banana or taro leaves back on earth, altogether magical and out of his expectations. 
This phenomenon was like the… the…
「Leidenfrost Effect?」 Agwyn guessed.
Elrhain nodded. 
Above the Rubra leaf, water broke apart into perfect spheres as they gently bounced off. The apprentice started spraying more and more water, even using a [Spray Water] spell, but the leaf was utterly immune.
Then, he poured. And finally, the large volume of water broke through whatever magical shenanigan was going on and hit squarely on the leaf’s surface.
“As you can see, it works better when the water comes down in droplets, such as rainfall. Even a rainstorm can hardly damage it. But even like this,” The apprentice stopped pouring the water and slanted the leaf to one side. The angle was the same as how the villagers would set the leaves on the hut roofs. 
The water slid off like oil, not leaving behind a hint of wetness. 
“See? Well, it’s still a rather low-grade material, so it can’t do much against a dedicated magical offence. But for these people, it is more than sufficient.”
“Then the sap?”
“That would be harder to demonstrate as it takes time for it to dry.” The apprentice shaman pointed towards the cauldron. “Here, we mix the leaves’ extract, sap, along with a few other materials such as blood from specific gheists and manna core powder to strengthen the effects. Combine this with the viscous mud that you can find anywhere, and any house smeared with it will stand strong even in a hurricane.”
‘Impressive!’ Elrhain admitted. If what the young man said was true, this kind of concoction turned simple mud into a modern cement-like compound.
“Wait,” He thought of something, “I saw many dhionne bring back mud from the riverbanks and simply using them as is. Are they also using this stuff?”
“That…” The apprentice scratched his head stiffly.
It was then that the nobleman finally spoke up. “As expected, no way would the prince not notice this crucial point!” He exclaimed, then introduced himself. “This one is Onthoakt Slanout, your highness!”
Elrhain waved his hand nonchalantly. It had become a habit by this point, responding to noble greetings with impassive annoyance. 
“Continue what you were saying before.”
“My pleasure! Your highness, this Rubra house glue simply takes too long to concoct! We expect this batch to finish today, but it’s been boiling like this for a week already.”
Elrhain turned back towards the cauldrons. They looked about a metre high and half that wide. And there were seven of these currently in use.
“Are they not enough?”
“Absolutely not. We need a third of each cauldron for one measly servants’ hut. Even us cultivators have to make do with lesser and smaller dwellings far below our prestige. 
My people number four hundred strong. How can we afford to wait till all the homes have used the house glue, with the first monsoon of the collapse right around the corner? Even if us cultivators can, the weak servants cannot withstand the storms without a roof above their heads, not to mention the elderly and children!”
“Can’t you simply make more cauldrons? Since metal is limited, then what about using clay or stone?”
It was the apprentice who replied, “No, my lord. These are special alchemical tools lent to us by Palaikt Maegan Earthloch Blethen of the North Lakes, and of course the ever so generous main house.”
Slanout nodded. “My meagre Onthoakt house only had two to begin with, so we can only depend on your kindness. This mixture is, after all, alchemical. It will eat right through normal clay or stone. 
And more importantly, while Rubra leaves are plenty, the sap, gheist blood, manna cores, and even some of the other supplementary materials are harder to find.”
Elrhain thought it over for a bit. “There are hundreds of mountains around Lochuir being turned into settlements. Of course, there would be deficits.” He looked at the two men. “Are there no alternatives?”
Onthoakt Slanout and the apprentice looked at each other awkwardly, “There are, but they are even more valuable.”
“I see. That is something to worry abou-Hey! Annie, what the heck are you doing?!” the boy suddenly yelled, his eyes glaring in the direction of one of the bubbling cauldrons.


Chapter 38 - Field Trip Over

The little girl inched closer to the blazing red cauldron with the gait of an adorable, pint-sized thief. Her sneaky hands reaching for a shiny glowing rock piled with all the other materials. Even Ysbail and Cati were there, eyeing the treasure with greedy raven eyes.
The girls perked up at Elrhain’s sudden growl, then looked back between him and the glowing rock as if they were bandits caught red-handed but wouldn’t let go of the loot.
“Vesiphis?” Elrhain glared at the winged boy who was supposed to be managing them, so they would not get into trouble.
“What?” Vesiphis replied, “It’s just an inactive manna core. It won’t harm them if they don’t cultivate with it.”
“What if they try to eat it, you numbskull!”
“….err.”
“Never mind. As long as it is harmless.”
“Well, unless the handler is extremely foolish.”
Elrhain tilted his head, then pointed towards Agwyn, Cati and Ysbail.
““Hey!”” The three girls protested. Agwyn snatched up the manna core while yelling, “Annie isn’t stupid!”
Elrhain facepalmed, “Don’t get too close to the cauldrons, alright? What if the fire… burns… where’s the fire?”
Elrhain peered at the bottom of the cauldrons, where red lights flickered. Only then did he notice the oddity. 
The liquid in the cauldrons boiled like crazy, but there was no flare, wood, or smoke under them. In its place were stone slabs engraved with orange circles, giving a false glow of a flame. Yet the heat was palpable.
Magical formations.
Elrhain stared blankly at it for a few seconds, not believing how he could have possibly missed that. When abruptly, he felt a few pairs of piercing eyes boring into his back.
His gaze crossed with Cati and Ysbail’s. The two little imps frowned as if it took a moment for the gears in their brains to turn. Then they broke into massive grins, throwing their hands up, hooting, “Rhain is the stupid one! Rhain is the stupid one!”
It didn’t take long for Agwyn, who had been busy wowing at the shiny rock, Arfon, and even Eudav, to join in.
Elrhain wanted to object, but Vesiphis patted his shoulder while shaking his head. A sympathetic expression appeared on the winged boy’s face as he closed his eyes with unvoiced compassion, and Elrhain got ticked off even more.
“Honestly, my lord, that’s totally on you,” Vesiphis spoke.
Elrhain stared up at the sky before glancing at the adults again. He saw both the Onthoakt and shaman apprentice smiling at their childish antics. He could only lament at how he let the brats one-up him in such a disgraceful manner.
***
The two men put their debate about resource deficiencies aside for now and took the kids around for a guided tour of their budding little hamlet. 
North of the main settlement, far away from any watering sources such as the wells dug up or streams flowing down from the mountain ridge above, were the outhouses fashioned from rocky pits, hidden by foliage to give a dhionne some privacy.
Elrhain wondered if people actually had to walk so far if they wanted to answer nature’s call, but Slanout replied that these weren’t the only outhouses. Heck, they were just passing by the area, and it wasn’t even part of the tour!
What would the other houses think if they knew that the prince and princess visited the Slanout Hamlet, but the first thing they got shown there was the poopy-pits?
…Agwyn would not stop giggling for fifteen minutes.
The hunter’s lodge, a mini version of the shire, stood near the hamlet’s gates at the southeast. The cultivators in service of the Onthoakt’s house mainly gathered either here or roamed the mountains to clear out any rogue gheists that had sneaked their way in. There was even a tiny healers hut and some cold caves fashioned into silos to store the wild foodstuff and hunt.
「…What are you doing?」
「In fantasy stories, don’t magical beasts get stronger by devouring the cores of other beasts—Eww!」 The little girl was cut short as the magical husky sneezed a bucket of snot and saliva right next to her feet as she tried to force the Pengyte to eat the shiny rock.
“Alleigh! Gwoss!”
The Husky whined as it covered its snout with two paws, its expression like a wronged daughter-in-law’s.
Elrhain scoffed, then immediately put away the glowing herb he too was planning to…err, contribute to Alleigh’s cultivation. The boy looked around with shifty eyes, then whistled a suspicious tune.
The children of the tribe ran around playing their little games or helped their parents with mundane tasks all over the village. The elderly sat under the shades of huts or trees, weaving clothes from reeds and vines or carving shells of nuts or insects. 
There were Kaloxen, Maturas, and other beasts of burden in the gheist enclosures beside the west palisades. A flock of fliers called Gurumba, which looked like giant sparrows with horse’s heads, were also nestled upon the great primordial trees.
「Hey Annie, do you know what Basashi is?」
「…Uh, no. Some kinda samurai sword?」
「Nope! It’s sushi made from raw horse meat.」
Elrhain drooled as he stared at the horse heads peeking out from the canopy, 「If there is a bird with a horse head, I’d reckon there’s a fish too, right? Imagine the flavours! Truly, this world is the best place for fusion cuisine!」 
The little girl stared at him incredulously before thwacking his shoulders playfully. 
「Then go and get food poisoning why don’t you!」
「Your loss.」 He muttered while wincing as the group had made half a curve on the not so small mountain.
All in all, this was one of the better villages Elrhain had explored in the past few months. The air was ambient with the clutter and clatter of cooking, the peeps and squeaks of the young, and the hearty high talks of the old. Everyone had things to do, everyone had hopes for the future. 
Only the Onthoakt and the few cultivators of the upper caste were in contrary moods, sporting worried looks because they did not share the servants’ enthusiasm. Their minds constantly churning on how to keep this peace alive.
It was the same for Thundham and Bromwyn, and all the main house echelons. 
These days, the dinner talks have become more serious. The adults were always irritable, and they had less time to simply accompany the kids to talk about fun nothings. Elrhain and Agwyn weren’t hungry for attention either. They toned down their clinginess and let their grandpa be.
Even Eluned had lost her cheerful smile, while Dofnald seemed to frown more.
Only Cyra acted like her mind was full of clouds. Of course, that could also be a front she screened in front of the kids to not agitate them, as she was the one taking care of their daily needs nowadays. 
The woman did not seem to require diligent daily cultivation, unlike everyone else. She devoted her days now fretting about the rightest way to smooch, pat, and rub their tiny tummies to make them fall asleep faster at night.
The suns neared the horizon as the kids basked in their rays, signalling that the day was almost over. Elrhain and the others bid farewell to the good Onthoakt and apprentice, whom they came to know as Freeman Adol Brewer, after the detailed look at the inner workings of the hamlet’s construction. 
They were quite satisfied, and the Onthoakt was even more satisfied that the kids were satisfied.
So everyone had a big smile on their faces when the tour ended. The visitors were just about to trek down the mountains with a merry mood on the Alleigh-mobile…
…when a thin man came rushing towards them with an urgent note in his cries.
Worry was visible on his face, and his movements were laden with distress. Evidently, he did not bring good news.
“Lord Slanout! T-There’s another one!” The man stopped before them, not even caring to look at the kids or the giant dog. His eyes were clouded in fear as he relayed the message to the lord, “It’s young Harund’s wife. She’d done well even this morning, but now h-her, I-I’m ‘fraid it be really the Swampling’s Curse!”
Stuttering, he could not get a coherent sentence out without three fidgets and a twitch. But everyone present had no trouble extracting the gist of his panicked tale.
Slanout’s ape-like face paled as his fangs inadvertently snarled out. He promptly ordered the man to lead him to Harund’s hut. Even apprentice Adol looked like he was about to keel over but nonetheless, followed the duo into the mountain.
Elrhain and Agwyn exchanged glances, then told their Watch guard, ““We follow!””
And so they followed, even after Vesiphis and the Watch member literally fell on their knees and begged them not to. 
Their pleading was logical. Because it was undoubtedly risky for two children to go anywhere near someone who had been cursed. Since curses that can infect adults can just as quickly spread to the young.
…and adults usually recovered, while children suffered harshly.
But the two were determined to see this through, and Alleigh, a mid-oceanic husky, would only listen to its master’s princess and the princess’s master. So, Vesiphis and the Watch really couldn’t stop them even if they whimpered with all their might. 
Elrhain, of course, wasn’t entirely out of his mind, and took out a hexagon-shaped bone ornament attached to a leather string from his tunic’s pocket.
“Our mommy gave this to me. It’s a talisman with a [Misty Safeguard] spell. The curse can’t get through if I use this, right?” 
Indeed it could not, as the spell was an augur meant for continuous protection against miasma, poison, and similar hazards that some recently spotted gheists were susceptible to use. 
It would last hours with the amount of manna Cyra had put in, and that spell was just one of ten the talisman could employ. 
Annie also carried an assortment of protective magical treasures with her. She dangled them in front of their grumpy guardians with glee, so Vesiphis and the Watch could only sigh and relent.
But they did not allow Cati, Ysbail, Arfon and Eudav to follow. Vesiphis resolutely brought them down from the mountain towards the main house for complete magical cleansing. The younger kids did not make matters difficult for him either, as they sensed the gravity of the situation with their sharp instincts.
Vesiphis would also be the one to report this case to the Earthloch Elders, while the Watch member would continue attending the two kids and the husky in case of an emergency.
By the time they had caught up to the Onthoakt, a sickly woman, presumably the cursed, was being carried out from a small hut on a floating stone bed by a lady dressed in a healer’s garb. All around, a small crowd of onlookers were hastily broken up by the Onthoakt house’s cultivators.
When Slanout noticed Elrhain and Agwyn approach, his face paled even further and was about to snap. But he closed his mouth when he saw the soft protective field of blue light covering the now trio of unwanted visitors and their magical mount.





Chapter 39 - A Prince in Shining Armour 

At the same time, in the Earthloch’s Grand Hall,
“May the spirits bless you with a safe journey, Prince Yuriel Zwei.” Bromwyn, seated on a luxurious putuan of exquisite craftsmanship upon an elevated dais, gestured the noble sign of farewell towards a white-haired youth seated cross-legged on the hall’s floor opposite to him. 
He was now not a jovial father but the Siorrakt, Earthloch’s great chieftain.
“Likewise, may your mighty clan tide through this blessed collapse with nought but triumphs.” The youth, looking to be about 18 to 19 cycles old, bowed deeply with a sincere smile. His slightly blue-tinted white jadeite eyes cast a respectful glance at the Siorrakt while the diamond crown on his head gleamed with soft pearly light.
He was the second prince of the Yuriel Impelakty, one of the heir candidates vying for supremacy for the greatest house on the disc. His wings cast a domineering shadow in the hall, even though his demeanour was so gentle. Even his getup, a silken white robe draped over his gold and sapphire adorned, formation inscribed full body armour.
Bromwyn shuddered just looking at the cramped metal coffin the Yuriels loved to torture themselves with.
‘How do they fit themselves inside such thin boxes? Is the rumour true? Are they really completely flat in the groin area?’
The giant of a man winced internally, but did not let it show on his face. His eyes moved behind the youth who seemed to glow even without light, and scanned the other dhionne currently sitting on both sides of the hall.
Shamans, warriors, and mages, all cultivators with varying degrees of strength.
All blood from other high noble houses.
Outside and down below the winding mountains at the gates of Lochuir, the entourage of these scions made up of low nobles, freemen, and even trusted servants waited for orders with convoys prepared to depart before the collapse could hit with full force.
And this was already the seventh convoy of outsiders to leave after that fateful night. It was the last and also the smallest. But it was by far the strongest and most high profile.
Even if the north was entirely under Earthloch control, that didn’t mean other people could not traverse its lands. In fact, all cycle round delvers and explorers from all across the disc would risk their lives to venture deep into the Fractured Tundra Peninsula on the other side of Earthloch’s primordial forest, and the Dim Subterranean Abyss thousands of meters under the Earthloch’s lakes and mountains.
For barter, for cultivation, for resources, for riches, and for glory. Quite many direct scions had also been residing in Lochuir all this time. The ones who came before were here for training, to challenge themselves and prove their worth to their house.
Unlike them, ones such as this Yuriel prince came just recently, only to witness the blessing of Earthloch’s new prince and princess. It was, after all, the binaural of the Siorrakty’s new heirs. All other high noble houses had to send at least one representative of suitable stature to watch the ceremony.
And watch they did.
Whether it was the haughty Elementalists of the Oumental Diuvakty, or the cunning Sea Stalkers of the Ruolf Eyrshakty, even the ever so calm second prince of the Impelakty who was proudly called as the Griffin Prince of Yuriel, were staring up at the heavens, jaws gaping, eyes as big as pumpkins at the miracle of the wake of a hundred thousand spirits.
Each and every high nobility clan had gone through the same at least once in their history. Or how else could they have accumulated so much wealth and strength to stand at the apex of the disc?
But a collapse was still an epoch crossing event after all. The archive keepers of the various dominions recorded the last instance fifteen thousand cycles ago when the newest Juyakty rose to prominence. That time it wasn’t because of two little toddlers doing their weird betrothal rite, but by gathering thousands of manna-riogh hearts to forcefully tear apart the firmament that lead to the blessed white void. Even then, the scale was less than one one-hundredth of this.
So yes, they watched till their eyes bleed greed and their face twisted with rage and jealousy.
‘Why them?’
‘Why the northern barbarians who know not civility?’
‘Why, for the third time, is it the Earthloch savages?!’
The voices of the wind asked their unsound questions. But even if Bromwyn heard them, he would not answer. His job right now, as the Siorrakt, was to evict their gracious guests away from the territory as soon as possible.
In other words, he had to get rid of them before they could cause any trouble. And there was no doubt that even the traditionally friendlier houses to Earthloch would not want to see them rise without limits.
The house that would wish to see that happen the least was, of course,
“It is unfortunate that I could not say my congratulations to the prince and princess personally, Siorrakt Earthloch. Yet it pains me to say that I must leave today. The gazes of the manna and spirit spawn grow hostile to us by the day. The only thing I can leave is the paltry gifts the Impelakt himself has ordered me to bestow upon the two heirs.” Prince Yuriel Zwei spoke with a forlorn tone. He then passed on two small yet extremely fancy-looking swords to an Earthloch servant waiting by the side.
“I would have liked to bestow these Star Cleaving Blades directly upon them, but alas, I shall not be rude to insist. And I am sure that with such heaven blessed talents, I will certainly grace myself upon their presence when the North Uorys opens up once more. It is my dearest wish that when that time comes, the greatest Siorrakty of the lands and the Divine Impelakty itself can forge a bond stronger than the strongest metal once more.”
The other nobles gasped high and loud at the mention of ‘Star Cleaving Blades.’ They were a famous series of swords that only the craftsmen of the Impelakty could forge. Even a Sky realmer could comfortably use them with little loss of manna output, if they did not have a better weapon at hand. These were perfect vessels for Totem too.
Truly, what a ‘paltry’ gift…no, ‘Bestowal’.
Bromwyn sneered, but his face was all smiling. “It is as the second prince says. When the time comes, a new era will have already arrived.” He then thumped his thigh with the might of a Kaloxen and guffawed, “By that time, it will already be the stage of you young’ns, and us uncles would have long retired. Be sure that these blades would have seen the lives of a hundred thousand collapse-crazed gheists by then! HAHAHA!”
Prince Zwei bowed respectfully once more, then gently stood up before turning towards the doorway to leave. His wings fluttered even without wind, his posture that of an ancient sculpture of a male god. His face, the picture of peace and valour.
With the young man in the lead, all the other nobles also gave their respect one by one and then left the hall for their entourage. Their journey would be penurious, but it would also bring them opportunity. Even if this was just the beginning of the collapse, the treasures it could provide for them along their travels would be better than anywhere else on the disc.
They were fearful yet greedy. It was something Bromwyn had no trouble noticing, yet what could he do? Keep guard of their grubby paws till the last of the outsiders left their Siorrakty borders?
Bromwyn shook his head. Then smiled, thinking that today would be the last day he had to deal with this sorry lot.
So he didn’t follow them out, not even the Impelakty prince. Which is why he did not see the frosty glint in Prince Zwei’s eyes as the Impelakty scion exited the grand hall.
***
A few hours later, far away from Lochuir sitting on top of his mount, Prince Zwei cast one last glance toward the township.
“Oh, I really do hope you like our gifts, Siorrakt Earthloch. Our Impelakty has been striving hard since the last disc war to plant within the savage north the bestowals of true nobility.”
He looked away, “Yet I fear you might have to start all over from a Juyakty again, when the collapse ends.”
The Ebonbeak, also known as the mighty Winter Gryphon under the youth felt its master’s emotions. It let out a sky shattering roar, scaring all the other beasts in their massive convoy. Yet, the other nobles did not dare complain. For the Gryphon was a peak oceanic realm gheistrum, a creature that could wipe them all out alone within half an hour if given a single command from the prince.
But they didn’t have to. Because each of these nobles were also friends of the prince, and “friends” of the Earthloch, working hard day and night to deliver the light of the Impelakty upon those northern savages. They had heard his voice and acknowledged its meaning, laughing with malicious mirth, thinking of the disasters waiting to explode within this savage dominion.
“ROAR!”
The Ebonbeak’s howl echoed once again, hearing the cheers of the dhionne and the fear of the beasts. Prince Zwei ran his hands through the Gryphon’s silver fur. His ears picked up more in the applaud of his followers than it. 
This was a laughter to hide their distress, to hide the shame of having failed the most crucial mission given directly by the Impelakt himself in the last tens of cycles.
‘After all, it is but a gheist.’ Prince Zwei lamented. It could not understand the difference between righteous anger and ashamed indignation. Because it thought the prince felt the former, but it was actually the latter.
‘Worm Cursed luck!’ Prince Zwei clenched his fists hard and bit his lower lips. ‘Just five more cycles and this renegade Siorrakty would be done for.’
His mind once again screamed with the same mournful question as that fateful night, ‘Why did the collapse come now, when our plans to subdue the north were just about finished?!’






Chapter 40 – Past of the Earthloch Blood

「A curse!」 Elrhain muttered, 「Why is there a curse? Didn’t mother say dhionne don’t get sick easily?」
「She never said dhionne not once get sick, just rarely…」 Agwyn looked thoughtful,「… and in most cases, curses aren’t like typical diseases. That’s why they call them curses, because the stronger one is, the more likely it originated from malicious magic of either gheistrums or manna-rioghs!」
The patient of the curse, a young wife who looked around 20, now lay down on a bed of leaves and hay in the open yard in front of the hut. Her deer-like ears twitched as she weakly tried to open her sunken eyes, but the healer stopped her, telling her to sleep as she fed her a clear brew from a clay cup.
A circle of magic lit up above the young wife’s stomach under the healer’s command, and after a few minutes of hand gestures, she let out a tired sigh. She then gently placed her ear on top of the patient’s belly as if listening to something, and by the seconds, her face became paler.
By now, the cultivators had chased away all the unrelated people, and the only ones left there were Elrhain’s trio along with the husky, Adol, Slanout, the healer, a few of the cultivators, and a young man with green skin and leafy hair sitting listlessly on the hut's doorstep. Behind him, there was an elderly couple who shared his features, looking forlorn as they tried their best to comfort the young man.
「That should be Harund… and his parents, perhaps?」 Elrhain observed, and Agwyn nodded. The little girl was more interested in what the healer was doing, though.
「… Ah.」 Agwyn suddenly blanched.
「What’s wrong?」
「S-She’s pregnant!」 She replied, sure of her judgement. Elrhain frowned, then asked the Onthoakt just to confirm. The ape faced man grimly nodded.
“Harund’s couple had just married before we left Loch Slanout Village. She’s three seasons pregnant now. The child would have been the first babe born in our settlement. But now, alas….”
“… Is this Swampling’s Curse so fatal?”
Elrhain asked as Agwyn nervously tugged his sleeves. Onthoakt Slanout peered at the little boy for a while before sighing.
“For cultivators, it can’t do much. For a young and healthy mortal, they’ll lose muscle and might take a cycle to heal if it is bad. For the children and old, the damage might be permanent, and the meridians in their muscles will never be the same if so. But very rarely do they die. For a babe in their mother’s womb, however….”
Onthoakt Slanout shook his head as if he had given up all hope, then walked to young Harund and patted the man’s shoulder. Elrhain could tell that the Onthoakt, too, felt powerless before such a trial of life and death.
The husband, who looked no older than his wife, finally could not hold it in anymore and broke down into wails.
“My wife! My child! My first child!” He cried hysterically. He pulled himself free of the Onthoakt and ran to where his wife now lay. She slept so soundly like the world was now but a song of peace. He held her hand, his own quivering as though the same song had torn his heart into pieces.
“Why?! Why us?! Ahhh!”
It wasn’t a pretty sight. But no one mocked Harund, not the strong cultivators, and not even Adol, who had been quite haughty when speaking with servants during their brief tour.
They simply looked lost. The only thing they felt was empathy.
Looking at the other dhionnes’ expressions, as if they too could relate to Harund’s pain, Elrhain remembered one of his conversations with Cyra a few months ago.
******
“My, my, my, oh my little Rhain, why are you so na~ugh~ty!” said the malicious slug woman as she did her third raspberry on his chubby little tummy.
“Go somewhere else!” Elrhain tried to slap her face away in vain. A toddler was no match for a sky realmer, after all. 
“Don’t you have better things to do?” The boy protested, “Go make Agwyn a little brother or something!”
At first, he simply meant that as a light joke. But Cyra’s reaction was way out of his expectations.
The mighty sky realmer jolted back as if stung by a bee. Cyra stared at Elrhain with a cloudy look on her face, then turned to look towards the sleeping Agwyn.
For a second, a thousand emotions passed through her visage. Sorrow, melancholy, rage, unwillingness, despair, denial, and finally, acceptance.
And then, she sobbed.
“Ah, W-What?” Elrhain was flustered, his hands waving in front of him in a panic. “W-Why are you crying?! I-I’m sorry!”
Cyra didn’t speak, just hugged the little boy and rubbed her wet face on his recently raspberried belly.
“Hey! You’re taking advantage of me again.”
“Ahahaha~” Cyra suddenly burst out laughing, then wiped away the tears from her eyes as she looked at Elrhain’s own, her two glossy irises laden with a mother’s unmasked love. Elrhain blushed, trying to look away. But Cyra would have none of it. It wasn’t until ten minutes later when she, at last, was satisfied snuggling him.
“Rhain, you say the strangest things sometimes. Ey, Gwyn will have her hands full when you get married.”
Elrhain tilted his head. He did not know what was up with this woman. First crying, now laughing. But her eyes were red. It didn’t seem like she was faking it. But one thing was for sure. Even though he was always exhausted as a beached whale with all the violent hugs and cuddles from his two mothers in recent days, he had to admit, it felt good.
This was a privilege only toddlers could enjoy, and secretly in his mind, he decided to take full advantage of it!
But later. Because it looks like Cyra had something important to say. So he took a few breaths of time to steady himself and looked her in the eye again.
The now not-so-bubbly slug woman gently stroked his bushy hair as she lay down beside him. “You don’t know how much you mean to us, you mini meanie.”
She lightly kissed his puffy cheeks. “You are smart. You look like a baby, but father always says you have the soul of a sage hidden inside your tiny body.”
Elrhain looked the other way, sweating nervously. He inwardly contemplated if the klutzy slug woman had found out about their transmigration.
“And I agree. Not just you, but Gwyn too. You two little smarty butts!” Cyra giggled, then gently turned his head to face her. “That’s why you have to always be safe, okay? You have to live a long life! It doesn’t matter if you don’t cultivate or if your talent is low. We’ll find a way to raise both of your realms together in the safest possible way. All you two have to do is be good and play cute!”
“Eh! No way, I got ambitions too, you know- “
He was interrupted again when Cyra put her index finger on his lips, “Because… I don’t think I can give Gwyn a little brother to play with. 
Rhain, the main house is so lucky in this generation. We have so many healers that serve us, so many extraordinary shamans and mages. It’s our blessing that…. all of your cousins successfully saw the light of the Sohwl without tragedy. But you know…. 
It wasn’t like this when in Brommy’s cohort. At that time, a devastating war had just ended with five neighbouring discs, and everyone was busy recouping losses. Yes, Uorys lost in that war, so every house and every tribe and every sect did whatever they could to sire more children. You know of Uncle Stormfelt, right?”
“Ya, uncle Morys’s pops? I heard he was, err, he passed away?”
Cyra nodded. “He had three babes; two died before maturing. Your grandpa fathered a daughter before Brommy; she died when she was barely half a cycle. Father also had a sister who gave birth to four daughters during her long life, and only two are alive today. In that generation, nine babes were born in the main house’s primary branch, only four survived.”
Elrhain gasped, “W-What!” He thought for a bit before asking, “Wait, then what about all the other uncles and aunties?”
But another kiss on the cheeks was her reply, “Aw~ Look at you such an adult-wike face. So cute!”
“Stop it! What happened then? You can’t just quit at the important part!”
“Okay, geez. Brommy, Morys, Meredith, and Brigdhe are the only four directly from the main branch. Ah, auntie Brigdhe is young Ariana’s and your older cousin Albert’s mother. Everyone else was actually part of the side branches of our Earthloch main house. That is until father thought this segregation was the work of fools and removed any such tradition from our house rules.”
“Smart choice.” Elrhain praised, and Cyra booped his nose with a grin.
“Listen, Rhain, it’s not so easy to make a little brother for Gwyn. Not even mentioning that I am a Faediaga, even for normal dhionne marriages, it takes tens of cycles for a girl to be ready for a babe again. The egg has to be nourished with good manna rich food and medicine, and the wife cannot take in seeds willy nilly. Only after she has… ahaha!… You understand what I am saying?”
Elrhain shifted his eyes but nodded nonetheless.
“Aww~ you little pervert, Eluned is so naughty teaching you these. Or was it the Archive Keepers, those old creeps!” 
Elrhain didn’t correct her misunderstanding. ‘Sorry Grandpa Archive keepers, this air-head is the one at fault for coming to the conclusion!’
“Anyway, we can’t just bear kids whenever we want. It takes blood, flesh, and so much heart and soul. But the real reason is the child-taking curses. Unless a babe is nourished sufficiently in the womb, they can succumb too easily.”
“…. Do many newborns die in our Siorrakty?”
With complicated eyes, Cyra affirmed, “Yes. One in three for the servants, since they can barely collect enough nutritious, manna-rich food for the wife. Before father Thundham beat down all opposition to support Elder Croneira in her work, it was also about the same for nobles. Even in the main house… 
Actually, Elder Croneira, she… she really is such a goddess. If she hadn’t lost all her daughters that time, Brommy would have two more cousins, and you would have two more aunties to pamper you. Now, she is neglecting even her own cultivation to find ways to stop such deaths, so no mother has to suffer through that pain again. She knows best how to keep a babe plump and healthy and so sweet to kiss!”
With that came the nth kiss on the cheek. Elrhain didn’t mind and scratched his head, asking, “So the newborn death is much lower now?”
Cyra shook her head. “For the main house, yes. Some nobles also follow Elder Croneira’s practices. They send apprentices from their houses to study under her. But that’s about it.”
“Then the servants?”
“Elder Croneira is a mage, a great healer who has mastery over many oceanic grade spells she herself developed to heal mothers and babes, even when she is barely in the 5th circle. Her methods are ingenious, but there is a cost. They require many magical materials as catalysts. While we hope that one day we can deliver every babe in the Siorrakty without loss, for now, it's just not possible… Wait!”
“Huh?”
Cyra sat up with a start. “It might be possible!”
Elrhain couldn’t follow her thought process at all, so he simply put his thumb in his mouth and sucked on it. 
The little boy then yawned. All this brainstorming about the clan’s newborn mortality was making him sleepy.
“The collapse, dummy!”
“Oooh… yeah. That, how could I have possibly forgotten—“ Cyra picked him up and showered him with more boops and smooches all over his face, “Oh you, oh you angel, you cheeky widdle god of fortune~muah~.”
“Yeah, let me sleep, please.”
“~muah~I must speak of this with Elder Croneira at once! No, tomorrow then!~muah~.”
Elrhain yawned again, not caring about her antics. When Cyra finally put him down on the bed, he used the now bubbling slug woman as a squishy body pillow since Agwyn was too far away and he was barely awake enough to lift his limbs.
But then… a corner of his lips curled up as he felt another warm body hug him from behind. The sleeping beauty must have felt something missing, so she could not help but scoot over towards her prince charming.
*******
That night, he could not really comprehend with his heart what Cyra talked about, even if he understood the facts and logic from Earth’s own history.
But now he could.
Yes, the Swampling’s Curse was a child-taking curse. It wasn’t only that, since it could infect anyone regardless of if the victim was a pregnant woman.
But for the latter cases especially, it was a nightmare.
As he was brooding on what he should do while comforting Agwyn, the situation suddenly changed.
“H-Healer! My wife!” Young Harund cried out.
The deer-eared woman who had been quietly sleeping abruptly gasped in for breath with eyes wide open, as if she was suffocating.
Even as the healer cast a healing spell and tried to feed her some medicinal paste, the wife violently shoved her hands away, then started retching white bile all over the place.
A few seconds later, even her bottom side became wet as a pungent smell spread out. But the only emotions on the onlookers’ faces were solemn solitude.
Harund’s wife retched and purged from both above and below for tens of minutes before collapsing again, completely out of breath and out of soul. Her husband was squatting powerlessly on the side, not knowing what to do.
After cleaning up her twitching body with cleansing spells, the healer checked on the unborn babe again before exhaling with fatigue.
“P-Please,” Harund begged.
“…. The child still yet lives… but Servant Harund, the curse wrecks havoc in Servant Nana’s body….”
“N-No, there must be something we can do! You are a healer, I beg you!”
The healer shook her head with a pained visage, and at last, the tired youth could take it no longer and curled into a pitiful ball of grief beside his ailing wife.
But at that point, both Elrhain and Agwyn’s gazes had turned razor-sharp. Among all the disturbing purging, the healer’s treatment, and some of the symptoms they had just gleaned from apprentice Adol, the two otherworldly souls noticed a simple, invisible fact that only they could have seen.






Chapter 41 – Strength of Stuttering!

「I wonder if they will listen.」 Agwyn muttered with uncertainty painting her voice.
「Now's not the time for doubt!」 Elrhain pushed her forward, 「This is precisely why we carefully planned the Operation Stutter Extravaganza! 」
「B-But, I don't think I can explain complicated medical terms in Uorian with my lisp! W-What if they hear wrong and-」
Agwyn wanted to let Elrhain be the one to propose the potential cure for this 'Swampling's Curse.' Or at least the dehydration induced by it.
And yes, the symptoms servant Nana showed were undeniably of severe dehydration. It was something Elrhain and Agwyn could identify at a glance.
Many epidemics in the history of humanity on Earth have led to epoch changing tragedies, with one of the notable ones being cholera. The outward manifestations of this dhionne curse made the two kids recall the conditions of people rescued from nuclear polluted settlements from deep within the wastelands, where many mutated diseases ran rampant.
Immediate analysis and vaccine production were not possible most of the time. Hence Agwyn's Reclamation Company had guidebooks written by various experts on the field on how to best reduce or even wholly treat symptoms of the most common plagues, diseases, and radioactive illnesses that the fate-forsaken denizens of the nuclear wastes were so prone to suffer.
This was why Agwyn was actually more knowledgeable than Elrhain in emergency first-aid. But she had extreme insecurities about speaking up in front of strangers with her broken lisp. 
Even if she had been practising to fix her speech, she was nowhere near confident to speak up in such a serious moment!
「It does not matter! Since we will use knowledge from Earth that can tangibly affect this world, we have to be super careful not to raise any suspicions. Especially with Auntie Lillian! She's too sharp and will definitely hound me if I am the one who comes up with the idea. But when you do it, you can just say that you read it in some memoir but can’t remember the name. 
All you have to do is play cute. If you lisp, then that’s also fine. Use it as a weapon, the most lethal kind against which even the barrier of Gigantomachy is useless! 」
Elrhain took a deep breath, then continued.
「Everyone knows you only read some scrolls because you have nothing else to do when I scour the archives. That’s why it's not strange if you only remember some titbits from a random scroll but forget other details. Since this is the first time we'll use the 'I read it in a scroll' excuse, we can brush away the suspicions without too many complications. Maybe. I mean. I hope so. But right now, we don’t have time to hesitate! Trust me, cute is justice, and especially when cuteness saves the world! You be the vanguard, and I will support you from behind.」
「…. I like that you called me cute, but I feel you are insulting my intelligence.」
「Y-You misunderstand!」 Elrhain stuttered as his enthusiastic gaze wavered for a second. The boy then kept urging her to go forward, and Agwyn finally complied.
Indeed, her lisp was one of her sore points. But the real reason she wanted Elrhain to be the one to speak up, despite knowing that it might raise some eyebrows, was because she wanted him to gain the prestige that he deserved. She was growing tired of all the snubs calling him unworthy of her.
Agwyn sighed before clasping her cheeks hard and skipped forward with her signature' cute little girl jumping on a rain puddle' hop.
Elrhain gave her a thumbs up. The little girl snorted. 
She donned the cutest expression she could muster while tugging on Slanout's sleeves, "Uncle Slanout, um, why doesn't the l-lealing auntie give the weak servant auntie more water and salt?"
Agwyn's sudden actions took aback the Onthoakt, and he could not answer for a while.
"Lealing? Salt?"
"… healing! You see, Annie read in a s-scroll in grandpa Archive Keeper's cave that you have to make the weak servant auntie drink water, honey and salt juice!"
"… I don't understand." But before Slanout could say any further, servant Harund heard their conversation and looked like he saw a ray of sunshine in the abyss.
"P-Princess!" The young man abruptly kowtowed in front of Agwyn, making her a bit frightened. "This unworthy servant begs you! I will give my life to you if-"
"Servant Harund! Watch your mouth. Do you want the clan to punish you for disrespect? How dare you talk like that to the-"
Agwyn saw the situation turning in a direction she didn't want, so she had to bring out her ultimate weapon.
She sobbed.
And the whole venue turned as silent as a grave. 
Agwyn's soft whimpers echoed for a while as she used her palms and the hemp of her robe to wipe away her tears, "W-Why won't you l-listen to Annie… I just want to save the weak servant auntie and her baby…."
Slanout scratched his head, not knowing what to do, while Harund's face lit up. "T-Truly, can you save her?"
Agwyn nodded.
"The scroll said so. If the weak servant auntie drinks salty and sweet water many times today, she will get good. Other discs do this, and the weak aunties there can beat curses. Annie isn't lying! I saw it in the scroll, honest!"
It was then that Elrhain joined in like a cavalry, saving the day. The little boy held Agwyn's hands and spoke out.
"… If you don't have better ideas to save the baby in that Aunty's tummy, then it's either this or death."
As the words left his mouth, both Slanout and Harund paled. This time, even Harund's parents joined him in kowtowing to the two, and no matter what the Onthoakt said, it could not stop this despairing family's pleading. 
Elrhain insisted, "Besides, since Annie read this in a discwalker's memoir in the archives, I think it is worth a try."
Slanout alternated his gaze between the two kids, then the watch member who stood awkwardly behind them, and finally towards the cursed female servant who lay there on the bed of grass. He saw Harund's bleak yet hopeful gaze and the emotions on the face of the cultivators who were listening in on their conversation.
… after all, they too had family members in the mortal realms. A terror like the Swampling's Curse did not have eyes or conscience; it did not choose who to infect and who to not… and servant Nana wasn't the only pregnant woman in the settlement.
Earthloch Siorrakty's subjects, whether cultivator or not, had an ingrained sense of worship towards the main house deep in the bones. The legendary grand elder, the chieftain and chieftainess, and the great shamans and mages in their service raised nothing but confidence.
To them, they could do no wrong.
Slanout, being an Onthoakt, was still clear-headed. After all, the princess was but barely above three cycles old. Even if she was of the ruling house, how vast can her knowledge of healing really be? True, it was an impressive feat that she could read memoir scrolls at a tender age. But he would not put his absolute trust in a child.
It was common sense. Kid's her age could not tell the difference between a rock and a fruit. The fact that almost every common dhionne in the Siorrakty worshipped her after the girl had caused the heavens to collapse a season ago would not suddenly turn her into a wise sage.
But… as the prince said. They were grasping at straws. The Swampling's Curse did not have a cure as far as Slanout knew. The only choice was to grit through the pain. Yet even if the curse passed, the damage it can cause to a village, if not correctly handled, can be devastating, needing many cycles to fully recover. 
'… maybe it is better to let the princess do what she wants. Who knows…' the Onthoakt thought, then he called over the healer who was resting at the side after depleting her manna.
The tired woman greeted the two children with reverence at first but frowned as she listened as Agwyn lisped out what she had read on this 'scroll'. 
Weirdly enough, even though her speech was a mess, the incoherent words and sentences were making sense the more she spoke. Despite that, and the fact that the girl made good points on how the illness in the scroll and Swampling's curse showed familiar symptoms, it did not raise confidence in the healer.
"It is not advisable to let the cursed eat or drink anything other than medicine until the purging is completely over. Food will simply irritate her bowels, worsening the purging."
"B-But the scroll!" Agwyn indignantly raised her hands, and the healer glanced at the awkward Slanout with tired eyes.
"This may be unrelated, but Agwyn and I read a lot of memoirs of delvers and discwalkers in the archives. Since they use simple Uorian letters and not the runic of cultivation scriptures. It's fun reading about all the experiences they go through and the things they see in so many foreign lands." Elrhain said. "And in many travel stories about the three great deserts of Uorys Diosca, they wrote about discwalkers who lose their way suffer from severe cramps in their muscles, sunken eyes, and wrinkly dry skin. Just like the weak servant auntie. This was specially mentioned in the scroll about the foreign curse Agwyn read, if I remember correctly. The dhionne settlement afflicted by the curse was situated by a desert oasis."
"… My lord, the lost in the desert do not suffer from irritated bowels or purging. And the symptoms you have mentioned are caused by a lack of water…huh? Wait!"
"Yes, as if their muscled had shrivelled up like dried fruits! The dhionne of that unknown disc, and the weak servant auntie here too! The villagers there could tackle the curse since they were already familiar with curing these symptoms for generations. 
Likewise, even if we cannot solve her irritated bowels, there is a chance that we can at least do something about the rest of the symptoms by following the cure Agwyn mentioned!" Elrhain exclaimed, ignoring the amazed eyes of the adults around. He knew that it was jarring to articulate so smoothly like adults as a toddler, but he had to do what had to be done. 
"Also, why can they drink medicine and not other things? I don't believe the Onthoakt would spend high-grade medicinal elixirs for a servant, so you must make the medicines with mundane herbs. Am I right? And tell me, do these medicines have light ingredients such as water, honey, and salt?"
The healer pondered for a while before finally nodding, much to the good Onthoakt's awkwardness.
"So, I don't see any problem letting servant Nana drink this…this different kind of simple medicine Annie read in the memoir. It's not like we are forcing the weak auntie to eat a kilogram of meat."
Standing beside Elrhain, Agwyn pitifully chirped along, "Can you let Annie save the little baby in the auntie's tummy? P-please? I promise I won't be a bother."
Which was the last hit that broke through this tribal healer's mental defence.





Chapter 42 - Salty, Sweet, and a Little Bit Strange

The healer was not a narrow-minded person. Of course, she understood the logic in Elrhain’s words. Not to mention her heart squeezing like a sweet and sour berry at Agwyn’s upturned, eager eyes.
But she, like everyone else in this era, grew up with a rigid understanding of the world just as the generations before her. From the time she was an apprentice to now, she had essentially never ventured outside what her master had taught her. 
Treatments, elixir creation, spells, everything that she learnt came from knowledge passed down through hundreds of cycles of accumulated wisdom.
The only thing remaining was to gain enough experience in the real world. To know when to apply which knowledge for the best viable treatment of any patient. This had always worked for her, and even if the existing knowledge could not help a patient in time like servant Nana’s case, it was okay because that was but fate. Nobody would hold her responsible.
As for experimenting, she had neither the resources, the talent, nor the courage for it, unlike her genius peers training under the great shamans and mages in the Elder’s rest.
So, her rigid knowledge of healing told her not to accept the drivel of the two kids, who had obviously never laid their hands on a genuine scroll of medicine. Yet, her real-world experience told her the exact opposite. 
Her experience told her that if she didn’t use every conceivable mean to treat the cursed who now fought with pain, the unborn babe who warred with death, then was she still a healer?
She took a deep breath and again massaged her temples with two fingers. Finally, after much hesitation and rumination, the healer pushed back the rigidity and agreed to Princess Agwyn’s idea, making the little girl jump up in glee.
*******
Onthoakt Slanout immediately had his men bring a few clay jars, a large basin of stream water, salt rocks from his dwelling, and a broken honeycomb from the cold cave used as food storage.
Agwyn yelled from the side that the water had to be boiled for at least fifteen minutes, then cooled, to be drinkable. So the ape-faced nobleman ordered his servants to bring a heating stone from Apprentice Adol’s place of work. It was one of those heat inscribed stone slabs used to boil the alchemic mixture. But the healer interjected.
She asked Agwyn, “Will a purifying spell do?”
Agwyn nodded.
Thus, after half a minute of hand signs and mysterious incantations, a soft red glow enveloped a jar that had been poured full of water. 
The stream water inside seemed to discharge murky impurities as tiny dark brown specks, which gathered into a small bead above the water’s surface. The healer nodded in satisfaction at her handiwork, then removed the bead before getting a servant to throw it away in the dirty pits.
And thus, all the glistening water that was left was perfectly safe to drink!
The little girl wow’d at the convenience of magic. She then eyeballed the jar to measure the amount of water.
「Um, about 2 litres?」
「I think so. 」
Getting Elrhain’s confirmation, she pinched some crumbled rock salt from a small pouch and added it to the jar. She continued until approximately four or five teaspoons were mixed. Then, she took a clay cup and filled it with honey halfway, adding to the mixture.
“Stir it!” Agwyn told the healer, and the older woman complied.
That’s how a simple homemade oral rehydration solution was created for the first time in Earthloch Siorrakty.
The healer and the Onthoakt looked at Agwyn with uncertainty as she drew a bit of the solution with a cup and drank it. It was pretty comical how she gagged while crying, “Salty!”
She added more honey and water while taking a sip now and then until she was satisfied.
“It’s done. I can save the weak servant auntie now!”
Slanout and the healer exchanged a glance.
“My lady, does it not need alchemical-”
“I’m not a lady. I am Annie, a cute little girl. You can call me Princess Agwyn, okay?”
“…. Princess Agwyn, does this remedy not need any other manna-rich ingredients?” Slanout asked.
“Nope! It’s done. Healer auntie has to make weak servant auntie drink a fifth of this jar every fifteen minutes until… um….” Agwyn put her fingers on her chin, then muttered, “Until she stops twitching?”
Even before the Onthoakt could say anything, Harund took the jar and a clean cup and dashed to his wife’s side.
“Gently! Gently! She is weak.” The healer shouted. Then with a groan, she helped the young man carry out Agwyn’s order.
Agwyn patted her skirt with a serious grunt as if she had worked a long and tiring day, then scurried back to Elrhain’s side.
「You can’t. You have to supervise them to know when to stop. Or if the saline is really working. 」
「…. fine.」Agwyn pouted, then hopped her way to the healer’s side.
Elrhain looked at the scene with an obscure expression. No one knew what was going on in his mind.
“My lord-, erm, Prince Elrhain.” Slanout said with an awkward smile, “It is truly lamentable that you had to see our village’s incompetence today. Whatever may take place, we are all grateful that your honourable selves care so much about the weak of our Earthloch.”
“You don’t believe the remedy will work?” Elrhain grinned. He hid the fact that even he was unsure if this magical variation of severe dehydration could be treated by non-magical means.
The direct question from the three-cycle old took aback the experienced Slanout. But he only sighed, saying, “The Grand Shamanka and Grand Elder sing high praise of the prince and princess every chance they get. Of course, everyone in the Siorrakty, whether or not noble, bears full trust in the two inheritors.”
Elrhain didn’t ask the man any further questions. He clicked his tongue, then turned towards the watch member standing at the side. “I reckon the main house will send some people to pick us up in a while?”
“Yes. Depending on how fast lord Vesiphis reaches the Earthloch manor, an hour or two if I am to guess.”
He then looked up at the evening sky, continuing, “Before the 10th night hour at the latest.”
Elrhain nodded, his gaze returning to Agwyn’s busy back.
‘Heh, she was so squirmy before, but now look at her enthusiasm. Baby girl’s growing up too fast.’ Compared to her clinginess a few months ago, this independent activity was a tremendous improvement.
***
The healer wiped the sweat from her forehead. Even though she was a low Earthen realmer and her physical strength was admirable, it was strenuous to carefully hold servant Nana up and make her drink the remedy the princess had concocted.
She had to keep repeating this every ten to fifteen minutes, and it had been almost two hours already. Two moons had been unveiled, and the third had peeked its pink-red face in the dark of the sky.
At first, servant Nana showed a violent reaction which was typical for anyone cursed by the swampling. The moment the healer held the clay mug at servant Nana’s lips, she fiercely resisted, her weak arms finding strength from who knows where to push it away.
Her body kept jerking as if struck by thunder, and her eyes opened wide with only a hint of life in them.
Young Harund had jumped up in horror, and the healer wanted to wait until servant Nana’s condition was more manageable before administering the concoction.
But the princess was adamant.
“Force it!” She spoke.
The few times after that were just as rough. Sometimes only a few drops of the medicine would enter Servant Nana’s mouth, and other times most of it would spill on her clothes. But even though a lot of it was wasted like this, the materials were readily available, and more jars of this ‘saline’ as the princess called it had already been prepared.
The only other time the healer had to force an ailing person to undergo treatment was when wounded hunters were brought back from perilous hunts. To treat the ripped flesh and shattered bones despite the patient’s pain was her duty.
But this was different. The healer felt as if she was going against her creed. 
However, as time passed and her body became more fatigued, the healer noticed a peculiar change in servant Nana’s situation.
Her skin was no longer so wrinkly.
“T-This…” The healer could not help but gasp out loud, bringing her hands to her mouth. Servant Harund, apprentice Adol and even the Onthoakt looked at her in confusion.
But she had not the mind to care. She carefully ran her fingers over the cursed’s skin.
Agwyn grinned, “I told you Annie could save her!”
The lustre of the skin was not the only change. Servant Nana no longer spasmed like a deranged beast. Her muscles had relaxed as if she was asleep. The swelling at her joints had visibly receded, and her limbs were no longer so tedious to move.
This expectant mother was still visibly famished, with thin arms and sunken eyes. But her breath…
The healer put away the distracting thoughts. She could dwell on them afterwards. For now, she had to take careful notice of any other change in the cursed’s situation.
A quarter of an hour, one more cup of the mixture.
And again, and again.
Finally, the healer once more put her hands on servant Nana’s stomach. A gesture of a spell and a glow of blue light.
The healer’s face grew complicated. She removed her hands and placed her ear on servant Nana’s slightly enlarged belly. With each of Nana’s breaths, the healer’s head would bob up and down with the rhythm. She carefully took in the body’s condition and the babe inside. And as those breaths drew by, the countenances of those beside tensed.
On the eve of the third moon ultimately unveiling and the dancing choir of the night cicadas as a backdrop, the healer let out a long, tired sigh and relaxed her body as she plopped on the ground.
“Kond!” Apprentice Adol hurriedly supported her. 
Kond, the healer as she was called, shook her head as she said, “It’s fine. It’s just that my arms feel sore.”
Adol wanted to continue, but Onthoakt Slanout cut him off. He asked the question that everyone wanted answers to.
“How… is her condition?”
Kond looked at servant Nana. Young Harund quietly sat beside the ailing maiden, wiping her forehead with a cold grass weave. The young man should be the one most anxious for answers. But the long hours that passed seemed to have returned the servant to his bearing.
…. That is how most servants were. Rage, denial, and acceptance of their fate. Kond did not know if Harund had calmed down with a sense of trust that the princess’s remedy could save his wife and child. Or if he had simply given up all hope seeing his wife not gaining sense since she had last purged her filth.
Kond smiled, thinking of the little girl who was biting her fingers standing at the side. Truly, she was the divine daughter of the spirits!
“It worked.” She blurted out, not wanting to keep the impatient audience waiting any longer. “The manna in Servant Nana’s flesh flows smoothly again. And so does her womb. Aha ha, salt, water, and honey.”
“Yes!” Agwyn cheered from beside with a great jump. While Elrhain also spontaneously broke into a smile.
Apprentice Adol, Onthoakt Slanout, the watch member, and all the onlooking cultivators collectively let out a sigh in absolute liberation, then turned their complex gazes toward the two little celebrating kids now chasing each other around the sleeping Red Pengyte. In their eyes, there was reverence.
Servant Harund stared at them blankly, but his mother thwacked him with her scrawny hands on the head. The youth broke out of his trance, then a colour of profound veneration flushed his pale face.
He kowtowed towards Kond and the two kids, then the Onthoakt, and finally towards the lakes of the mountains of Earthloch, voicing,
“Blessed be the princess! Blessed be the prince! Blessed be the lands and many lakes of Earthloch!”
“Blessed be the princess! Blessed be the prince! Blessed be the lands and many lakes of Earthloch!”
“Blessed be the princess! Blessed be the prince! Blessed be the lands and many lakes of Earthloch!”




Chapter 43 - Cyra Made a Scene!

“A miracle!” 
“T-The Swampling’s Curse, they actually cured it!”
“I implore the Lord to take her highness’s remedy to the seven cursed in the healer’s hut!”
Amidst the sound of the jubilant crowds of Slanout’s settlement, the terror wrought by the sudden incursion of the curse slowly but surely faded away. The men and women, both cultivators and not cheered by what could only be a miracle, a blessing by the princess’s wisdom. 
Young Harund held his wife’s hand with tears streaking down his eyes, and his elderly parents prayed a tribal chant of good fortune for the two mighty little saviours.
Healer Kond sat with her back resting against a coniferous tree to the side. However, her weary eyes could not hide her exhilaration at all. Apprentice Adol passed her a wooden vial of rejuvenation potion from a small pouch tied to his gheist-skin belt.
“Good work,” He said, his eyes peeping at the two children running around the Red Pengyte, surrounded by a joyous crowd of village people.
Kond grinned, “I feel like I only did grunt work.” 
She then slightly craned her neck upwards as the milky moonlight of the unveiled celestial bodies washed her earlier gloom away. “…. How many more babes will be saved every year from now on because the princess read … a scroll in the main house’s archives? What absurd providence, how capable she is despite her tiny frame.”
“And now you know of the cure as well, Healer Kond, as you are the first healer to help the princess realize the cure upon a sufferer. In times like these, you should be proud. Proud, I say!”
Kond laughed. She was amused at this young apprentice alchemist who had been trying to so obviously court her for the last few days. She had noticed his gaze since the day they travelled to this new settlement under the Shire Shamanka’s orders. 
Before, she was confused about his fondness since that was the first day they had met. And honestly, she was a bit wary of the young man. 
But today, his words rang true in her ears, and that wariness also seemed to fade ever so slightly.
Indeed, she was proud. Both at her newfound willpower to defy her master’s unbending disciplines and at her ruling clan, which was undoubtedly under the eyes of the benevolent heavens.
*******
Onthoakt Slanout watched his people cheer without façade at the only good fortune to visit them since the collapse had begun. He knew that since the moment the first victim of the swampling’s curse appeared last night, his people had been living through a kind of paralyzed fear. 
First, the order to abandon their homes for a far-off land, then the migration filled with all sorts of peril. Finally, just when they reached their destination, the curse.
A little venting would help calm their tense minds.
So before he knew it, almost every dhionne in the settlement had gathered in the clearing after the word of a remedy spread like wildfire. 
Stones were banged, and songs were sung. Whether it was the old, young, or children who did not know what was going on, everyone celebrated as if it was the last hunt of Spring, the end of Bloomwater.
“I knew it would work! I just knew it!” Slanout’s ears picked up princess Agwyn’s prideful exclamation. The girl had caught up to the prince and pounced on him with a jump. Almost as if they were putting on a display of intimacy in front of their subjects.
Prince Elrhain tried to dodge with a pale face, but the princess moved like the twilight shadow, deftly clutching onto her prey… then stumbled on a pebble as her bodyweight tumbled them both towards the ground.
Luckily, the watch member had a quick reaction and caught the two kids who were now pulling each other’s hair. 
‘… uh, intimacy… they are engaged, right?’ Onthoakt Slanout mused within. But amidst these adorable antics, he noticed a particular point some nobles had revealed to him a week earlier when he had just arrived with his people on this mountain.
The victor of the two toddlers’ battle for supremacy was decided in a heartbeat. The triumphant princess now hugged prince Elrhain’s neck with her chubby arms and coiled around his waist with her stumpy legs from behind.
Onthoakt Slanout frowned. His East and West Lakes peers claimed that the prince had nothing but a farmhand servant’s talent. 
Slanout could not discern the validity of that statement without the help of a corresponding ritual. Still, it did seem like the prince was far feebler than the princess, even though they both were nurtured equally by the main house.
Yet, Slanout was not keen to believe every word of those two factions with their conflicting ideologies. Because, from his own observations, the prince was far brighter in mind than the childlike princess. He was more intelligent than adult folks Slanout’s own age if he were to be truthful.
His way of expressing logic and justifying the princess’s proposal for the cure was akin to a truth-seeking mage or an Impelakty scholar.
The princess, on the other hand, though far stronger in body prowess than the prince… ‘seems to have random mind spasms? A curse of another sort, perhaps?’
Slanout blanched, then slapped his face hard with his hairy palms. He should not be even conceptualizing such heresy! 
And besides, wasn’t she smart enough to read scrolls from the archives at barely three cycles old? Which family’s toddler could do so other than the prince?
Slanout remembered that it took him until he was well into his teenage cycles, if his memory served him right, to master Uorian symbols. Even then, he could barely read the mundane Uorian scripts used in non-cultivation scrolls, such as discwalker memoirs and life recounts of past Slanout Elders. He would have instead wrestled a Racadger than read something so bland. Because fighting a gheist would actually take less time, willpower, and energy!
Onthoakt Slanout slapped himself again just to be sure he would not accidentally blaspheme.
“Oooh.” 
When Slanout looked down, the princess had dragged the prince by the hand and stood in front of him with mouths agape. 
“Are you slapping yourself because you feel dumb for not believing Annie when I said I could help save the weak servant auntie?”
Slanout was speechless. 
The princess grinned.
“I know.” She patted his legs as if she were his elder, “It’s fine; there aren’t many people smarter than Annie. You don’t need to slap yourself.”
Behind her, the prince had practically fallen down from laughing. He gasped out at the princess, “That’s an impressive achievement considering your parents!”
Before Slanout could even register the horror in his thumping heart from the nonchalant prince’s absolute preposterous line of words, an ethereal voice sounded from all around with a wave of rage palpable in every word spoken.
“Oh, is that so?”
The two kids jumped up like spooked rabbits, then ran in the opposite direction from where the mass of blue and green water swirled into existence. A breath later, the frame of an incensed faediaga stood there with bloodshot eyes.
*******
“What did I tell you two about staying out late! Humph, is that so? Now you two don’t even listen to mommy, huh?” Cyra crossed her arms and pouted, her foot stomping on the ground repeatedly like clubs.
““We’re sorry””
The two kneeling kids whimpered. But…
“No, I don’t believe you. Also, why are you kneeling on top of Alleigh?” Cyra asked while faking a scowl.
“Because the ground hurts my knees.” 
“Alleigh’s fur fluffy!”
Cyra snorted; this time, she didn’t have to fake it. But for some reason, her irritation at the two died downwind, and she recalled what had just transpired.
The kids ran to Alleigh in a hurry as soon as they heard her voice. They then woke the sleeping pengyte up and told it to lie on its belly.
Before Cyra could even reprimand them for their irresponsible behaviour, they had climbed on top of the gheistrum and started kowtowing in Cyra’s direction. Alleigh only arf’ed confusedly from beneath, its tongue sticking out, trying to lick the pouch of meaty snacks Elrhain had placed down beside its snout.
Cyra was so stunned she had almost forgotten what she wanted to say, then had to stop herself from clapping her hands in admiration.
Truly, her daughter and son were the cutest in the world! They had even learnt to act pitiful before being punished!
But no, she could not spoil them too much. She had to instill proper values into these two smarty butt chipmunks as the clan matriarch and an outstanding mother.
Cyra picked them up from Alleigh with her tender aqua vines, then placed them on her lap, belly down, butt up… and raised her hand overhead.
Elrhain realized what was going on and screeched like a wronged husband, “How dare you, vile woman! How dare you disgrace me like this!”
While Agwyn sobbed, “Mommy doesn’t love Annie anymore!”
Cyra paled. Her resolve to be a strict mother melted away like the last snow of Snowrend, and she could no longer bear to let her hand fall. To spank the two pitiful kids like how her maids educated their sons and daughters.
“N-No! Mommy loves you both the best!” She hugged them with an agitated heart and started showering them with as many snuggles and smooches as she could. “I-I know, it’s actually Alleigh who stopped you from leaving early, right?”
The Pengyte’s fur stood up as if it was bitten by a thunder eel, and it yelped wretchedly before dashing down the mountain with its tail between its legs.
“…. Captain Anouk?” Cyra narrowed her eyes towards the dutiful watch member, who now shivered like he was ten feet under iced water. The watch member, Captain Anouk, shook his head left and right as hard as if his life depended on it, stammering, “T-This, t-this one, h-hic!”
Cyra turned her gaze away and finally glared at the noble lord of this settlement, who stood gawkily with no aristocratic grace. 
“… or was it the dhionne of this village who wanted to gobble up my cute children all by themselves?!”
Slanout almost fainted at the accusation as he kneeled, banging his head on the dirt ground so hard that soil and gravel exploded out in all directions. The loud boom echoed like the shattering of a boulder. Every member of the settlement present, from Kond and Adol, to the hunters and mages, from young Harund to even his aged parents, followed the Onthoakt’s lead as they prostrated to beg for mercy.
“I accept my punishment for troubling the prince and princess!”
““We accept our punishment, oh mighty Faediaga.””
Legs were shaking, tears were falling. Couples hugged their spouses, and parents hid their children. But behind all that fear, there was a silent fortitude.
No one ran. No one blamed. 
When the servants of this village looked at her children, there was no accusation towards them for the punishment they might suffer.
Only gratitude.
Cyra tilted her head in confusion. She had just joked light-heartedly to cover her embarrassment at not being able to admonish the children, but this reaction…
She looked down at the two cute criminals sitting on her lap and asked in wonder, “What exactly happened here?”
Her daughter suckled on her thumb while her son hid his face by pressing it against her bosom.
Cyra grinned, then asked the same question to Captain Anouk, who had by now regained his nerves.
The man was still frightened, anxious he had wrought upon himself the chieftainess’s wrath. But after one more glare from Cyra, he faithfully recounted what had taken place throughout the day.







Chapter 44 - A Flight in the Right Direction 

Cyra remained silent throughout the Onthoakt's portrayal of today's event. But her expression grew more complex as the nobleman, the apprentice alchemist and the healer described the deeds of her two little trouble sniffers with increasingly more enthusiasm.
"…. You…" The sky realmer picked Agwyn up, not knowing what to say. Then, after squinting her eyes as she carefully studied her daughter's face, she held the coy little girl closer to her own. She scanned every nook and cranny from Agwyn’s quivering lashes to her slightly purplish nose.
Cyra then turned her upside down in midair, restarting her investigation from another angle.
Agwyn giggled. 
Cyra put her down right side up.
"I-I’m warning you!” Elrhain tried to back away, but alas, Cyra’s watery appendages were all-encompassing. She dragged him to her bubbly lap and harassed him in front of a crowd with deep nasal breaths.
After her examination of the two finished, Cyra huffed, then gestured towards Onthoakt Slanout.
“North Palaikt Blethen will send someone to confirm what you said soon.” She said.
Upon hearing that, Onthoakt Slanout bowed his head as low as his ape-like body allowed. “I will do as you instruct, oh mighty faediaga.”
“Just repeat what you told me. And if there are more cursed, immediately start their treatment according to this…. Salt, water and honey remedy. So that my children’s intentions won't go to waste, ‘mkay?”
“Understood!”
Onthoakt Slanout took that as a dismissal and ordered his people to vacate the area. Healer Kond and apprentice Adol shared one last glance with Agwyn and Elrhain before following the Onthoakt to the hut where the rest of the patients were being cared for.
Agwyn waved her bare hands at their back as a farewell.
Cyra stood up, dusting her pale blue chiton. When everyone left, her eyes peered at the two kids again with a sense of unease. Elrhain and Agwyn, like rabbits under observation, started squirming.
“W-What?” Elrhain stuttered.
“…” Cyra averted her gaze. “Nothing. I’m just wondering since when did you cuties learn to keep secrets from mommy?”
“Y-You can’t make up lies about us!” Elrhain fiercely denied, and Agwyn nodded while covering her face behind Elrhain’s bushy hair.
Cyra snorted, picking the two up by her filaments again. A film of water protected them as her body collapsed into a stream floating in midair.
“Don’t think this is over.” Cyra’s voice came out from everywhere around. “I’m going to cuddle you till you share everything after we get back. I’m going to kiss you both so much that you will beg me to listen to what you have to say.”
Elrhain rolled his eyes. Before he could say anything, though, the trio gently shot up to the sky and made their way back north, where their home mountain lay.
Along the way from up among the dancing clouds, Agwyn tugged Elrhain’s sleeves and pointed down at the myriads of cliffs and peaks surrounding the loch Sagathan and the tens of hundreds of other lakes of Lochuir.
The unveiled moons showered the night sky with their unending lustre; the sparkling stars and the crisp monsoon breeze proved to them the superior beauty of a rainless night. Cyra’s magic protected their bodies from the cold. Still, the two appreciated this magic adventure of flight with all their soul.
They were not at all uncomfortable lying on a bed of gliding water as they gazed at one settlement after another. The total residential area of Lochuir was no bigger than a modern metropolis of post-old-age Earth.
It encompassed mountains, lakes, forests, and ruins. Yet compared to that world, the population here was far sparser.
Some peaks had only one village like Onthoakt Slanout’s, while some lakes were surrounded by more than ten. Elrhain could even spot valleys full of activity between mountains of no souls. 
These scenes passed beneath their sky voyage like a fast forward movie reel. 
The fires of the dhionne at night for light and for cooking shined on the disc-like stars fallen. Some were burning on paths for the weary, while others were flickering obstructed inside crude huts and shacks.
Tiny figures wandered back and forth with only a shadow of a shadow seen from so far away, some in the woods and some in the pathways. The noise of the ending hustle and bustle didn’t reach them, but the sight alone conveyed the frantic lives of the dhionne’s trying to settle down in an unknown land. Though for some, now might be the time for sleep, to these dhionne, rest was but an extravagance that the collapse stripped away.
The blood, tears, and sweat to build another home for themselves, the loss of joy and of good food, the absence of a night’s rest as they toiled even after the midnight sky had sung the melody of the goddess of slumber just so they could live a safe tomorrow…
Elrhain smiled, knowing that they had today taken the first step in easing some of those worries for their unintended victims.
Come tomorrow, the dhionne of Earthloch will no longer fear the swampling’s curse.
Agwyn nudged closer to him, laying her head on his shoulder. The girl let out an enormous yawn, her eyes closed and face content.
“Gwyn, Rhain. Just a little longer. We’ll be there soon.” Cyra’s soft voice echoed.
Elrhain nodded. He, too, was fighting off the sleep as hard as he could. But he wasn’t afraid of nightmares, not anymore. Today, he looked forward to what reverie would visit him.
He would not dull his senses with lucid dreams, nor would he avoid any visions of horror that are to come.
After taking the first step to building a better world, he was confident as the celestial bodies above that he could fight back any worries his subconscious mind could hurl at him.
*******
Elrhain stretched while sitting on Thundham’s sturdy lap, his eyes staring incredulously at the quarrelling nobles beneath the podium. 
All manners of fancy phrases and nasty insults flew in from every angle. Some nobles pointed at their rivals while spittle flew out of their mouths in the buckets, while others simply grouped together in a corner and whispered among themselves whatever important revelation they had just deduced about their rivals.
On both sides of the large hall were carved pillars of unknown architecture, and beneath them lay rows of wooden putuans and stone seats placed there by the servants this morning for the nobles.
But more than half remained empty since many nobles simply continued standing. 
The mass of dhionne was distinctly split into four large groups and many smaller others. The four large factions were led by the four present Palaikts. In contrast, the rest were led by prominent figures without a Palaikt’s association. Elrhain also knew that there were a few other Palaikts who were absent today, their territories lying near the border areas of the Earthloch domain.
If every head of the near thousand noble houses were present, he reckoned that this grand hall wouldn’t be enough to seat them all.
Agwyn, resting on her belly beside Thundham while reading a scroll, made faces at Elder Sonora the moment the old coot dared to peek their way. The antlered man coughed, bewildered at the petite princess’s weird gestures.
Opposite to him was the faction led by the four-armed dhionne, Palaikt Sabhalan. Elrhain could swear he saw a similarly four-armed woman standing beside the Palaikt glare at him savagely. 
Next to this faction was the group standing behind a woman with skin the colour of the last winter snow. Her nose was sharp, and her eyes narrow with long fluttering lashes. Her ears pointed behind, far more Elven than Agwyn’s cute but small triangular ones.
On her forehead was a short demon horn, a bone cracked and greyish white. And on her face was a beautiful smile as she looked straight into Elrhain’s bewildered eyes.
… the prince blushed and averted his gaze. He reckoned that this lady Palaikt was pleased because of what he and Agwyn accomplished yesterday. Because standing behind her was a familiar face.
Onthoakt Slanout.
Finally, opposite to the lady of the south stood the head of the last faction. A silent man radiating elegance with his magnificent mane, everyone else too sat as gracefully behind him, as if disrespect was the same as dishonour. 
His attire was a level above fanciness even compared to Sonora’s. His long golden hair braided neatly were jewelled with a ruby embedded wooden pin. From time to time, he would whisper softly with his followers, his feline ears twitching and his beastman face breaking into a gentle smile.
Even though these Southern nobles were in the clan’s grand hall, they seemed to regard this noble beastman higher than even the Grand Elder. But unlike Elder Sonora and Palaikt Sabhalan’s factions, they took no part in the spitfire of insults.
“Grand Elder, this humble Sonora pleads you to throw the four-armed baboon out of our sacred hall! He knows not what shame is, not what his duties are with the curse outbreak ravaging our people!”
“Hey! That was uncalled for, Lord Bevin of Yuriel. I only pointed out that the East Lakes are already short of resources. We have no more to part with your Western bunch. In fact, aren’t the western grounds more fertile of both manna rioghs and fruit trees? Why do we have to share with you, and not the other way around? What say you, my brothers of Earthloch, of the fallaciousness of this renegade Palaikt?”
“Nonsense! It is obvious that our settlements suffered most from this curse, and yours suffered least. As fellow nobles, isn’t it obvious for you to lend us a helping hand? Or do you dare say that the East Lakes are no longer under Earthloch’s rule like the rest of us? You dare betray Earthloch upon the Grand Elder’s face?”
“Hahaha, your weak words to sow discord will only fall into the ears of fools, and no one with a smidgen of intellect will believe your kaloxen-crap. Of course, the East Lakes will help our weak little brothers and sisters of the west. After all, it is your impotent abilities that caused so much suffering to our Earthloch’s denizens!”
Elrhain yawned. At first, wrangling like these were interesting to listen to. But over time, he got bored of them as if he was watching the same soap opera every day. That’s why Agwyn even had a servant carry some scrolls from their room to pass the time. 
At least the memoirs had variety.
Finally, when a familiar old man, the scaled handed grandpa, entered the grand halls and took a seat with one of the more minor factions, Thundham shifted his position slightly as he held a hand up.
All the noise immediately settled as if their fight before had been just an act they put on, too lazy to break out of their daily habits. Even the South Palaikt, the majestic beastman stopped whispering with his followers; his eyes opened ever so slightly as he gazed at Thundam’s way.






Chapter 45 – Hooligans Need no Elegance!

Thundham nodded in satisfaction as one of his hands ruffled Elrhain’s hair. But although the gruff old man shot his eyes through the crowd, feeling pride at what would be declared in today’s gathering, he didn’t show a hint of his inner emotions on the outside.
“Good. I see you are all spirited as ever, despite the times. Then, how goes the settlement of my people, Palaikts of my clan?”
“… seven thousand heads of the eastern lake have all been well arranged in the rim of loch Sagathan, with three hundred new arrivals the day before. About fifty thousand, those who remain at East beyond the central boundary of Earthloch are making their way here as we speak under the lead of their various lords.
By the miracles of the spirits, the manna-rioghs that overflow are predominantly weak ones, lesser than high Earthen. So, their journey, while will take time, is not too perilous. We will settle them in before the end of Ashfall. By mid-Equinox at the latest, even if there are accidents.” Said Palaikt Sabhalan with a bow.
Ashfall was the season after the Monsoon, which was in turn called Greysqual. It was the Autumn of this world. And Equinox was the season after that, before the start of the five winters.
‘Equinox… I initially hoped that the main body would migrate before the monsoon ended… are there more people in Earthloch than Lilian said? Or, is the land simply that large outside the central boundary?’ Elrhain pondered while nibbling a sticky gum-like fruit he and Agwyn had scammed, traded from Ysbail this morning for some leaf and charcoal sketches.
He saw the other Palaikts also bow one by one and listened attentively as they reported the situation of their respective areas. The remaining dhionne to arrive was about the same for their dominions, and so was their expected arrival time.
Thundham nodded, then praised all the lords and ladies for their hard work.
From there, he moved onto other topics. The state of food stockpiles, how the hunters were faring, and about any gheist outbreaks near Lochuir. Just like that, an hour went by, and the nobles' faces became more and more unsettled, as if they had an itch on a place they could not reach.
Elrhain smirked, realizing how even the prime and proper Thundham would be mischievous sometimes.
Finally, as some nobles were just about to lose composure, being the tribal muscle heads they were, Thundham addressed the magma-tusk elephant in the room. 
“Word has reached me that there has been an occurrence of the swampling’s curse in many settlements. I urge you to affirm again, but you must build the villages by the shaman’s teachings. Is that not the case? The dirty pits and waterways cannot mingle, or of course, the curses of the undergods will haunt the denizens for dishonouring the disc!”
Elder Sonora was the first to speak up. “My lord, of course we have abided by the ancestral teachings! Yet the curse grows strong even though it had only appeared two days ago. Our healing mages and shamans toil day and night to appease the undergods. Still, the spread is yet unstoppable.”
“Hah, ancestor’s teachings. Don’t you mean Impelakty teachings of those heretic scholars?” Palaikt Sabhalan mocked, but Elder Sonora simply narrowed his eyes and didn’t argue back. 
What surprised Elrhain, who had an unobstructed view of the nobles below, was the clear shift in mood in South Palaikt’s camp. The nobles there seemed to grow incensed at Sabhalan’s mockery of the Impelakt scholars even though the target of the insult was not them.
‘Interesting. Well, the south does directly border the Impelakty plains. And they are also the only Palaikty in southern Earthloch with no equal neighbours. Cultural exchange has a greater chance of happening, as does cultural invasion!’ He mused.
“Silence!” Thundham warned. “Palaikt Sabhalan, there is a time and place for such behaviours, and now is not it. I will not forgive another transgression.”
The western lake nobles hooted while Palaikt Sabhalan hurriedly bent at the knee after a stiff apology.
“Now, Palaikt Sonora, as you were saying.”
“Yes, my lord. The situation is bleak, and we have not a moment to waste! For the sake of the unlearnt in our presence, let this humble Sonora explain carefully why we should not squabble west and East at such times. For we are not hapless cave mutts.” Palaikt Sabhalan glowered, but Elder Sonora again ignored the four-armed man with a cocky smile, returning to his speech.
“As you already know, the start of the collapse is the best time for newborns to be drenched in the rich manna the princess has so graciously summoned down. But with the curse of the swampling running rampant, I fear that the babes to be born in this golden time will either die of it or be crippled greatly even inside their mother’s womb.”
He then grandiosely spread his arms towards the other camps. “And this is not a problem for just west lakes alone. Whether North, South, East or even the main house at the centre and the Outer Circles beyond, if the curse remains unchecked, the very future of our great clan will be in jeopardy. What a joke it will be if, a hundred cycles later, when the collapse ends, Earthloch actually comes out weaker than before! Babes are the future. All else must be sacrificed to save them if we want to take complete advantage of the princess’s hard-fought blessing!
So I request you dispatch Elder Croneira and Elder Landohr to our settlements, where the curse hit the hardest. To relieve the future pillars of Earthloch of an untimely demise!”
Elder Sonora exclaimed his point with a swooping wave of his hand before placing them over his chest. Despite his fake elegance, none of the other nobles mocked him. Their faces grew grim as they, too, recognized the severity of the situation.
What Elder Sonora claimed was, of course, farfetched. Especially regarding the situation of the Western Lake nobles. He did that simply to have Elder Croneira treat his own people first. But, if even half of what he claimed happened, then it would indeed be a horrid turn of events.
Even Palaikt Sabhalan had dark clouds on his face and looked up straight at Thundham, awaiting the grand elder’s solution. 
At first, the South Palaikt seemed unperturbed, but his followers could not keep their calm as good as he. 
As for Palaikt Blethen of the northern lakes, she and her adherents were the only ones who could keep from losing it. News must have spread among them of what happened two days ago. Onthoakt Slanout even smiled, his reverent gaze crossing with Elrhain’s as if he was giddy being one of the only few in the know of a great secret.
Elrhain looked away and nudged little Agwyn on her bum with his pen. The girl snarled, then promptly sat up. It was about time for attention to shift to them.
The two had foreseen this and discussed heavily on how to proceed with their plans depending on the reactions. The only problem was, they did not know how or what those reactions would be. Cyra’s uneasy gaze that night still weighed heavily on their little minds.
Thundham, not noticing the turmoil of the two kids, didn’t directly reply to Elder Sonora’s request but shifted his gaze towards Elder Blethen.
“Regarding this, Palaikt Blethen will disclose the steps we shall take. Rather than me who was not present during the events, I believe it would be better for her and Onthoakt Slanout to take the helm from here.”
Blethen smiled as she stepped forward with chest puffed, acknowledging Thundham’s will as though it was a great honour.
Everyone else looked puzzled, speculating if this usually lazy northern lake ruler who did not show much interest in anything other than cultivation had sneakily come up with some countermeasure for the curse with none the wiser.
“Everyone.” Palaikt Blethen’s voice rang out. Unlike her Elven face, her voice was raspy. It had the mark of ageing and a slight treble only those who have seen the vicissitudes of life could offer. 
“Just like your lot, this swampling’s curse rampaged in the North Lake villages for the last two days too. However, I don’t know if it’s by luck. Still, definitely by the blessing of Earthloch, we of the Coldest north have thoroughly defeated it!”
Elder Blethen did not beat around the bush. Her voice grew louder with emotion at every breath, and she clenched her fist up high as if to show everybody that the north did it first!
Murmurs rose, which soon broke into a full storm of agitated voices. No one had the will to poke fun at Elder Blethen’s childish antics. They glanced towards Thundham as if to question these claims, then at Blethen with faces full of disbelief at the grand elder’s acknowledgement of the fact.
Finally, without any warning, everyone, even the prime and proper utterly lost their composure. Even Elder Sonora, who had just predicted an infant doomsday, was flabbergasted. 
He hurriedly threw the shock away and crowded with the other Palaikt’s for answers from the North Palaikt. Except for the South Palaikt, everyone else looked like they wanted to pry open the secrets from Blethen’s mouth if they had the power to do so.
“I-Is that true, Elder Blethen? How in disc’s name could a cultivation freak like you also know alchemy?”
“Wonderful news! I believe that the Northern lakes must immediately share their gains with us to drive the curse away once and for all!”
“As expected of the strongest of us. You have done the clan a high favour in this time of need.”
Palaikt Sabhalan beamed with an offhand joke, while Elder Sonora demanded like Elder Blethen owed her money. The South Palaikt finally broke his silence and wholeheartedly praised the northern Elf.
Following their lead, the Onthoakt’s and Reanakt’s, too, raised the clamour by many degrees. Praise mixed with wonder pushed away the fear and brought in a round of hope, like entering an icy cave after treading miles through the arid desert.
The pressure that had engulfed the hall at Elder Sonora’s premonitions broke away with cool, refreshing sweat.
But Elder Blethen held her dainty hand up, refusing to speak anymore. She snorted, then after yelling, “Shut the f*ck up! Don’t Interrupt me!” she closed her mouth as though the ruckus annoyed her mood considerably. 
Everyone understood her intentions and obediently shut up, knowing her volatile temperament that did things more on whims than rationale. It would be no surprise if this moody Elder refused to speak for the rest of the day just because someone looked at her wrong.
Finally, after a few rounds of polite urging from the three other Palaikts and an exasperated Thundham who was secretly blaming Blethen for ruining the momentum of the grand reveal, Elder Blethen reluctantly opened her pressed lips.
“…. Sigh. Fine, but one more squeak before I finish, and I am leaving. Where was I? Yes, that. Uh, we made the remedy of the curse the evening before yesterday.” Elder Blethen rummaged for a bit but then recovered her earlier calm poise.
Elrhain was speechless, and Agwyn looked heartbroken. 
This lady’s behaviour was not Elven at all!!
“Before arriving here today,” Elder Blethen, not knowing she had shattered two kids’ pure impression of her, continued, “I have personally confirmed that it works. In fact, it’s completely cured all cases of the curse regardless of age and health. The thing even worked wonders for six mothers carrying children, both mother and child saved. Those people only need some good food now, and they’ll be back to beating their husbands in no time!”
The hall threatened to boil over once again, but a cough from Thundham wedged their voices shut, least Blethen acted up. But Elrhain found it hard not to scream out at the Northern fake Elf to ‘not give Agwyn any damn ideas!’
“But I have to clear one important thing before I tell you lot what the cure is.” Elder Blethen said, “The first cursed saved by the remedy was not from my village. She was a sick mother, a servant called Nana from Onthoakt Slanout’s domain. In fact, only after he confirmed the cure to work on her and the other sicks in his village did this sleazy bastard send word of it to me.” Elder Blethen cursed, then thwacked Onthoakt Slanout’s head as if remembering the irritation she felt. The Onthoakt just shrugged as if he was used to it.
But then, Elder Blethen herself tensed up and looked at Thundham apologetically. “Uhh, it was from there, under the eyes of a main house Watch Captain and a shire healer on duty in this Bast-, the Onthoakt’s village, did we dare to use the remedy on other Northern Lake domains.”
“Then was it this healer who found the cure? To be a shire healer and not from the Elder’s rest, could such a genius really exist?”
Elder Blethen shook her head but then scowled at Elder Sonora for interrupting her. Luckily, she didn’t keep her earlier promise, and everyone seemed to sigh in great relief.
“You misunderstand, Bevin. The healer was the first person to carry out the cure, true. But she only did it under the prince and princess's guidance. That is why their escort for the day, the watch captain who had witnessed the entire process, helped us clarify the remedy to the other healers with healer Kond. Hm, Kond is that shire healer, a blood mage.”
“Oh, certainly. There’s no way the Elder’s Rest would pass over such a talent if it did-Wait, what did you say?” Elder Sonora hiccupped; his face looked as if hit by an ogre’s club. Blue and purple with a hint of pain.
“The prince and princess’s…. guidance?”
Not just him, but everybody else too, at last, registered Elder Blethen’s sudden words. And the woman herself, who nonchalantly dropped the bombshell without manner or mercy, grinned like a child who had successfully pulled a prank.
“Imagine my surprise! You always told me the prince was useless, but by what Slanout said, he’s a better talker being a toddler than you are at your old age. Now eat your words, you antlered prick! 
Yes, you lot heard right. Clearing your ear won’t do you any good young Sabhalan! 
The ones to dig up this life-saving remedy from some stinky piles of forgotten memoirs in the archives, the ones who convinced the stuck-up knucklehead Slanout to make the cure, the ones who guided Kond in preparing the treatment, and the ones to save hundreds of thousands of lives of our clan from now until forever are none other than Prince Elrhain and Princess Agwyn. 
It is none other than the blessings of Earthloch that they had picked Slanout’s territory to tour yesterday. It is none other than their genius that they could recall a long-forgotten passage from the memoir of a discwalker deceased a thousand cycles past. That they could pinpoint the remedy of the swampling’s curse from just one glance at the patient!”







Chapter 46 – Falling for His Conspiracies

「F*ck」 Elrhain cursed, looking at the absolute mayhem down below. He didn't twitch an eyebrow when Elder Blethen blew her top and stomped out of the hall. Didn't even bite back when Agwyn yelled at him for being a potty mouth. 
No, personality education could wait.
He'd need to act, and needed to act fast. Because Thundham, no, that accursed fake Elf putting them into the spotlight like this was not part of the plan, or any plan he had devised.
'Do the folks here not know of moderation, modesty, and presentation?!'
「They don't, duh~ And why are you so scared? Didn't you already anticipate that after curing cholera, I mean, this swampling's curse with saline water, grandpa will try to push us into the public eye as geniuses? Or is this some kind of PTSD from Earth?」
「 Don't be ridiculous. I don't have PTSD! 」 Elrhain snapped. The boy bit his thumb hard, a thousand thoughts motorcycling like crazy in his brain.
「I thought grandpa would simply brag for a while, or maybe shove it in Sonora's face if he pimps his grandson again. The nobles would get annoyed at best and doubtful of his claims at worst. 
They would think that grandpa is trying to give us credit undeserved, paving our way with stolen or bought-out achievements. That a weird thing we once blabbered some drunk nights ago gave the main house the inspiration to come up with the cure, a story like that.
That would be plausible. Which family won't exaggerate the accomplishments of their sons and daughters a little? This way, grandpa would not only give us enough feats to our name, at such a young age no less, dressing us up as bona fide geniuses. He would also be protecting us, who are not yet mature from enemy eyes. That's what the wealthier folks on Earth usually did.
Damn, I miscalculated again. Tribal idiots are much worse in politicking than Collective first generations.
This, this is giving us full credit. Thundham made Palaikt Blethen be the one to break the news, and quite dramatically too, in front of most of the nobles in Lochuir! She even specifically singled me out as one of the primary contributors, besides you being the main. 
And these numbskull wannabee aristocrats actually sound like they freaking believe what Blethen said word for word. Now, this news will spread until everyone, and their grandmother's pet pig knows what we did! Ahhh!」
「…. Sorry, I don't see why that's an issue. It's not like the lower nobles of Earthloch will try to assassinate us, right? 」
「You forget, didn't grandpa and the big guy talk about how the other high noble clans will definitely, absolutely, without doubt, plant as many spies as they can shove in Lochuir to monitor us in the collapse? Sabotage is not beneath those who don't wish to see Earthloch rise. 
And, there are so many precedents of high noble clans offing their enemies' talented scions and blaming them on other foes. That's why Cadfael is guarded by a whole herd of watches like a golden goose all cycle. If not that, then an Oceanic cultivator like Captain Anouk.
Secondly, we gotta worry about the out-tribal freemen who are settling near Lochuir. They aren't Earthloch. They're something like permanent residences who work, live, and die here but don't get the same benefits as clan freemen or the restrictions of clan servants. They are drifters from all around the disc who just wanna make a home here, and probably the very hodgepodge of the spies' activities.
Imagine if the nobles treated their own servants and family of the curse but didn't treat the out-tribal freemen? No, they surely wouldn't. The nobles see them as pests leeching off the clan's hard work, even lower than the lowest farmhand servants. 
And these out-tribals number tens of thousands. Who exactly do you think they will grudge when they see their newborn die? The curse? Or the ones who didn't save them. Logic can go suck a butt when your loved ones die left and right, and the ones with the ability do nothing to help. These are the most primal grudges; you can't find right or wrong with them. Besides, out-tribals don't live on Earthloch because they want to. It's because they can't live anywhere else. What will the other clan spies do when they see such hatred stinking out of their dirty pits? 」
「You are positively overthinking. Can't we just force everyone to share the cure? Did you come up with that whole saga of conspiracy theories beforehand and waited for the perfect moment to show off how smart you are?」Agwyn scoffed while twirling a lock of her hair. 
Elrhain blushed. 「It could happen, okay? There is precedence of conflict between clan nobles and out-tribals. It's not like the clan can just massacre so many dhionne, either. As for forcing, we could. But it won't address the root cause of any future conflict. That is, the hostile spies of other high noble clans potentially taking action against us two, using the out-tribals. 」
「Okay then, go on.」 The girl sighed, thinking if Elrhain's overactive imagination was the very culprit why he always jumped to the worst conclusion before anything even happened. The boy constantly tortured himself with this and that, as if he could not sleep without breaking his head over a million questions about morality, survival, and evil.
This was also the case back on Earth. It's why he was a washed-up rich CEO who spent most of his time indulging in hobbies. The boy was absolutely terrified of any and all social conflicts.
At least here, he didn't try to blatantly avoid them like in the past.
「Huh? What?」 The boy in question blinked.
「You looked like you were leading up to the third point, which is what you are actually worried about. Not some lame drama about hitmen and assassins.」
「... Thirdly, we told them we discovered the cure in some obscure memoir. They might believe it for now, but soon they will send people to the archives to scour through every text for more unknown nuggets of knowledge. The more they can't find any, the more they will become sceptical of the real reason we know how to cure the curse. Because it doesn't take much brainpower to find plot holes in our story, no, our excuse. 
After they calm down and think for a bit, they will ask questions we absolutely don't want them asking. 
It was us who found the cure; they can confirm this fact without falsehood. But they cannot confirm exactly where we discovered that cure. Then, if not from the archives, from where?
Even our immediate family might show uncertainty in the worst-case scenario, no matter how much I would like to believe otherwise. After all, a sapient mind is flimsy. Annie, what's the thing we want our family to know the least?」
Agwyn bit her lower lips while eyeing the noble crowd. This point was also something she had been fretting about. Back in the Slanout settlement, the situation was too dire to question Elrhain's flimsy reasoning. But after calming down, the weight of what they had done really sunk in.
Onthoakt Slanout had finished recounting their 'heroic tale' from yesterday. At first, some nobles were slow to believe. 
But just like Elrhain said, with assertions of assurance from Cyra, at least half of them believed. After the testimony of Kond, Adol, and watch captain Anouk, who were waiting outside the grand hall as witnesses, the rest of the naysayers were drowned out with a cacophony of praises.
But Agwyn could perceive a few looks there which were not of praise, not of suspicions that the Grand Elder conspired to claim the achievements of Healer Kond to the two kids, but of pure unmasked doubt of exactly how two barely three-cycle old toddlers could cure a millennium ruining curse. 
South Palaikt, Elder Sonora, Palaikt Sabhalan, and many more.
It was common sense. It took one whole cycle for a dhionne babe, a creature who could only lie on its back, to evolve into a four-legged infant. From there, it would take two or three more cycles for them to reach the two-legged toddler realm. And finally, another few cycles for their heads to be mature enough to think about stuff more complicated than 'Food,' 'Mommy!', and 'Ellie bit me!'.
Scouring archives for cures of curses, methods of magic, and blueprints of civilization were way out of any toddler's intelligence grade. It was okay if said dhionne child was seven, nine, or ten. There was precedence of geniuses in those age groups recorded in every clans' records, how they made the impossible possible to bring glory to their houses.
But not three. 
Three, was just too young. Too underdeveloped. Too unnatural.
…. unless that toddler was, in fact, not three. 
「Our reincarnation. 」 Agwyn slapped her forehead, then made Elrhain blow on it to chase the pain away.
「Stories of old beyond-sky realm ghosts possessing young babies are not made-up fairy tales here. I heard that it's one method Beyonders like to use most to escape a natural death.
And no family will ever accept their little apples being switched with old coots. Damn…. Why didn't I think of this that day? This is definitely enough for mommy, daddy, grandpa, and especially auntie Lilian to suspect things. 」
「Even if you did, you would still try to save Servant Nana, no?」 Elrhain asked with a smile.
Agwyn helplessly nodded. 「But… I don't want mommy or anyone to hate me. Hey, Ellie, do you think I actually replaced this body's soul with Annamaria's?」
Elrhain thought for a bit, then shook his head, 「No. I don't know why, but I believe I am genuinely Elrhain. A blend of Elrhain Earthloch Siaglas and Alex Fischer, to be precise. Remember what the big guy said happened when we were born?」
「… that we almost died. That there were magical omens. That our souls are weird. Wait, mommy actually knows we aren't normal kids! So why did she still…」
「Ya, I find that odd too. As for those omens, the most plausible reason for them might be because we were born in different places? Mother and father were still servants, so no way would the slug woman and mother be treated in the same manner during childbirth. Only after they figured out the cause of the omens did they up my mother's treatment.
Now that I think about it, we also had inexplicable physical symptoms like pain and headaches in the Elder's rest when Elder Croneira separated us, right? Imagine what would happen if we came into this world in totally distant places, separated by many kilometres.」
Agwyn imagined it. A blush bloomed on her face like a rose, then she hugged her little prince charming with all her fluffiness, 「 That's so romantic!」
「Death isn't romantic! And that's not the point! I suppose that our family and the higher-ups of Earthloch's main house, including auntie Lilian, know that there's something peculiar about us. Grandpa told us he did rituals and rites to test our talents when we were not even a day old. Do you believe they wouldn't try any soul-based auguries if magical anomalies happened when the clan's one and only inheritor was born?」
「Ah!」 Agwyn clapped her hand, 「In stories in this world where the family found out their scion had been replaced, it was never a good ending for either the family or the scion. Meaning, there are ways to check if the soul is indeed originally of that body. And a clan like Earthloch, one of the strongest on one of the largest disc in Fanas Diosca, would surely have the means!」
「Exactly. Wait, could that be why the slug woman cried that day? She didn't think we were suspicious, but there was still a problem with our souls the clan does not know. She was worried about us!.... I think I over-thought stuff again. 」
Elrhain scratched his head, and Agwyn giggled with a「Duh! I told you so~.」
He then pushed her away before she got more intimate in public and continued.
「I don't think we have to worry that our family will think we are imposters for now. But I expect they will use magic again to search for the problem. But what if they can't, just like how they failed to notice we are actually transmigrators three cycles ago? 
What if the suspicions return? They might think we, as we are now, aren't imposters. But whatever is wrong with our souls might gradually turn us into imposters. A demon can turn an angel fallen, a devil buys a soul while selling fake dreams and tragedies. 
If our closest family mistrusts us even a little, what about the nobles who are not fond of us? That South Palaikt prick has been glaring at us for a while now, and Elder Sonora looks like he just had a huge epiphany.」
「That… certainly is distressing. But I don't want to tell anyone we reincarnated. Never at all! 」 Agwyn shook her head fiercely. 「Even if they accept us, that we didn't intentionally do this, mommy definitely won't pamper me like before. 
Even I won't pamper my daughter if one day I knew she was really a 75-year-old lady from another world… even if that old lady has always been my daughter, with no evil body possessions or soul replacements.」
「 That's why 」 Elrhain narrowed his eyes while stroking his tiny chin. 「We need to act fast. We need to put our knowledge of fiction to use! What is probable, what is plausible? What is vague enough to raise no misgivings but believable enough to make our alibi rock solid? 
Whatever is wrong with our souls, we will make it inseparable from our identities. So that even if something happens in the future, our family will never think that we will do anything to harm them. Because we won't, and that's a fact!」
「…. We will lie again?」 
Agwyn asked with apprehension. She alternated her gaze between Elder Sonora, South Palaikt, Sabhalan, and finally, her mommy again and again. A gloomy look clouded her face that made even Elrhain shiver.
「Would it not be better to just shut up? After all, silence is golden. The less we speak, the fewer mistakes we make, and the less they know.」She said.
「And let the suspicion fester into a stinky compost mess? No way! 」 Elrhain stated with a somewhat uneasy glance. Was it because he was acting differently than what Alex Fischer would do? Or was it something else?
The boy inhaled. 「I don't care about the other nobles, but at least with our family, we need to wipe away any points of mistrust. We have to act pre-emptively so that the flow is always in our hands…. what? Why are you staring at me like that? You're scaring me!」
「Nothing. It's just,」 Agwyn twiddled her fingers. 「 Didn't you say that we have to be honest with our family? I'd instead not say anything at all if I have to outright lie.」
「Annie.」 Elrhain patted her shoulder, ignoring his own nervousness. Then kept patting while saying, 「Annie, Annie, Annie, Annie, Annie. 」As if the light-hearted joking would wash away his fears. 
「My friend. We are honest. It's just, we are packaging ourselves honestly in a way that is more digestible for the superstitious people of this world. This type of honesty is the best type, where we won't harm ourselves or harm anyone else. Far better than an arbitrary truth that can only bring misery! 」
Agwyn rolled her eyes. 「Sure, bullshit more, why don't you?」
Her gestures were cute, and her tone was soft. But Elrhain couldn't shake away the feeling that with every word he uttered, Agwyn's mood seemed to plummet. 
「... Did I say something to anger you?」
Agwyn faced him like a little drama queen, with one finger on her lips and upturned eyes.
「Last time, you got to make up the story! This time we go with my story, okay?」
Elrhain groaned, realizing his internal 'Annie-senses' might have fired a false alarm this time.「Annie, your stories suck! Not interesting at all. Everything is so generic that you can predict the plot from a hundred chapters away.」
Agwyn pouted, 「At least mine doesn't have plot holes. You, on the other hand, don't know even the basics of fiction writing. You always think that your thousands of wasted hours reading novels and playing games makes you a skilled writer, but you don't really have much talent. 
Okay, stop sulking. You yourself said it. We can't afford more suspicions unprepared. It doesn't matter if the story isn't an earth-shaking, sky-shattering secret. But it has to be self-contained! And unlike your mess of plot holes where you forget character backgrounds, lore, and any exposition you worked out in a previous chapter, my stories are all consistent!」
「…. and boring.」 
Contrary to his expectations, Agwyn didn't lash out at the insult. Upon seeing Elrhain's face squinting in wariness, Agwyn slapped his two chubby cheeks like a victor, humiliating the loser's pride.
'Again, there's that feeling again! Something is clearly wrong with Annie. Or is she just being passive-aggressive?'
「Ellie, remember all the books you wrote in your free time? Remember how they all flopped with netizens raining a hell ton of bad reviews on them? And how they called you out when you used your money to buy fake viewers, fake reviews, and an entire army of counterfeit fans? 
Remember that one book I wrote after seeing yours fail, when you said I couldn't do any better, and how it got adapted into a web serial, which, although it didn't win any prizes, had at least a 6.5 out of 10 in reviews?」
'… D-Definitely passive, p-passive-aggressive, yeah!' Elrhain felt a cold sweat trickle down his back. He could only concede defeat as his every cell screamed that doing anything else would lead straight to Ending W, the Worst end possible.
「Tonight, my love,」
Agwyn, however, didn't care for his turbulent mind. With a veiled face rife with both glee and sadness, she gave him the tightest hug she could. The ominous atmosphere that Elrhain had thought as being his imagination returned in full force, sending red alerts blaring through Elrhain's trembling body. 
「My soul, my heart. Tonight, my darling Ellie, we brainstorm. 」









Chapter 47 - Unstable Love and Lies

Elrhain had one predominant thought.
‘Brainstorming is like, super hard!’
This usually smug little boy used to scoff at people like some know-it-all whenever someone complained that fiction writing was challenging. That talented or not, it drained the bloody lifeblood out of proper people faster than vampires.
‘Well, duh! That’s why you needed plans! Structures! Frameworks!’
Regarding wordsmithing, Elrhain’s mantra was simple.
Get a protagonist, describe a series of events taking place, and drop in some action, drama, romance, and sensory information for good measure. 
There, one entire 367-page novel done. 
All he had to do now was wait for all the fantastic publisher deals to come rolling in. Or, in this case, accolades of non-suspicion from his family.
He was dead wrong. 
Agwyn made sure that his body and mind would never forget that fact. 
For a few weeks straight, the little girl scrunched up her nose, tussling with one scenario after another, arguing with her inner muse and editor. She bounced, no, ricocheted off ideas between them and Elrhain until even the tiniest speck of information was not out of place.
She challenged every choice of how and why things happened in their story cum excuse, the narration they would offer to the adults. In general, she made Elrhain’s toddler brain feel miserable day in, day out.
It wasn’t like Elrhain felt physical pain throughout the ordeal. But there was no doubt that he was as stuffy as a mouldering potato. Because some might say, pain would have been better for his current situation.
Brainstorming for weeks, as it turned out, was just so damn boring! 
Not the type of boring where he could spend the entire day lazing around, doing nothing. That was the satisfactory type of boring.
This was not it. 
This was the type where he had to do something repeatedly without an option to quit, just to do the same thing the next day, week, and month. The type where he opened his game library full of video games but closed it again, thinking there was nothing to play.
Story writing, in general, was the wrong kind of boring. 
Finally, after one death and thirty years in a new world, Elrhain could admit to the toxic netizens of Earth that becoming a fiction writer was just not for him.
Now he understood why writers were always so cranky near deadlines. The sheer will it took to slog on to write just five pages of consistent narrative was too much for a newbie like him. The old Alex Fischer might be able to bear it, but a toddler brained Elrhain could not.
Apparently, Agwyn could. 
Ever since the noble gathering at the grand hall that day, the girl had become weird. 
She was still her usual cute self, of course, playing and living the role of a sugar-brained little dumpling. But something about her words, her gestures, and her gaze cut deeper.
…. ever since the talk about suspicions and lies and deception they had in the grand hall that day.
With their minds linked inexplicably, Elrhain could feel the incongruity. He could make out a few of the reasons for the girl’s sudden shift in demeanour through her telepathic mood swings too. But whenever he tried to delve further into her psyche, the answers would twist, blend, and mix up into a mess of anxious terror.
People said writing fiction was good for the mind. But after much rumination, Elrhain decided that Agwyn’s strangely until-death-be-done drive to perfect this excuse was anything but healthy. It was the very culprit behind why her mental state was so turbid that even Elrhain could not force himself to spelunk it. Because even if he could not thoroughly read her mind word for word, her dark emotions were telling enough of the dangers that lurked within. 
Agwyn needed a change of pace. 
Thus, after the seventh time she had utterly revamped what their excuse would be based on, Elrhain, as tactfully as he could, suggested that the current story was good enough.
It wasn’t malicious deception, he meekly argued. 
For their purpose, Agwyn and Elrhain didn’t need anything more ‘perfect’. They should stop for now and move on to more exciting things to explore in this brand-new life.
They had the time; they could mend every minor detail in their long-awaited future. The time to brood and anguish on the same thing for such a long time did not have to be now.
Agwyn snapped like hell had tickled her wrath.
***
「That part should be fine, right? You’ll just describe some experience you had in nuclear wasted settlements. They cannot possibly vet that.」
「No.」
「Come on! I really don’t see any reason to refine every dialogue ever uttered by the locals to such extremes when you, or rather, the you in the vision, visited their homes. That’s an unimportant detail, and I am a hundred percent sure no one will interrogate you on it. Gloss it over, ad-lib, or play cute and say you can’t remember for Collective’s sake.」
「That’s treachery!」
「Annie… remember when you said that occasionally, a white lie is better?」
Elrhain huffed, then plopped onto the bed while wiping his temples. The night full of dark yet gentle clouds hanging low in the atmosphere outside the window barred the starlight from coming in. A soft drizzle blanketed the auras of the day, and only the bite of a fresh breeze remained.
Maybe that’s why Elrhain didn’t realize something had gone wrong. He thought it was just the cold from the wind, the otherwise refreshing draft of the monsoon’s nature giving him a nervous shiver.
It wasn’t.
「…. Was it also a white lie when you say you wouldn’t mind marrying me?」
「Huh?」 Elrhain’s eyes popped open. He sat up with an unknown urgency he could not put his finger on, only to discover a fuming Agwyn with a face so violet it looked like she was asphyxiating. Her eyes stretched wider than any human possibly could, and the vine-like beautiful markings on her body seemed to wreath in rage.
「Annie?」
「… No, no. It’s fine. I actually acknowledged this then and there. But I didn’t intend to let my thoughts slip like that. Ahaha, of course, so stupid of me.」
「… Hello? Anyone there?」 Elrhain cautiously crept to her side despite his horror and waved a palm before her eyes.
Agwyn didn’t even blink. But her head jerked towards him like a robot, as if she was a surveillance camera zooming in on a pesky thief.
「Ellie.」 Her eyes returned to normal, and her voice gradually thawed. 「White lies… are fine between us. I won’t delude myself thinking you are suddenly head over heels for me, okay? We have time to forgive. It was… silly of me to get mad when I felt you compared the memory of that day when I finally landed a kiss on you with the inconsequential dilemma we face now.」
Elrhain gulped. 
Indeed, he realized he had been a bit too liberal with the phrase ‘White lie’. The promise he made to trust in Agwyn that they would make this relationship work, to be with each other forever, was undoubtedly no lie, white or otherwise.
They were the only two souls who could talk about Late Night Collective Comedy and George Orwell in this vast world of desolation. 
Books, movies, memories. Fun happenings from the four nations and the tragic states of the areas yet to be recovered from radioactivity.
The newest research, the latest drama before they were blown to smithereens.
For Elrhain, separating from Agwyn would be no better than death.
But was that feeling really love? Certainly, Elrhain loved her. He always did for the three decades before their death and the three cycles after.
As a friend, that is.
Whether romantic love can bloom in his heart is a matter of chance, will, and trial. And Elrhain could say for sure that he wished for it to blossom spectacularly with all his soul. No. He would make sure it will.
But that’s a story for the future.
Right now, at this moment, could Elrhain really look Agwyn in the eye and say he loved her as much as she loved him?
Saying yes would be a nasty, terrible, white lie.
It was an unpleasant thought. An answer to a question both Elrhain and Agwyn, as adult humans, knew very well. One Agwyn let slip in a moment of neglect because of her toddler body’s uncontrollable emotions.
Annamaria could keep things to herself despite her feelings. Agwyn was only three. Elrhain realized that the dark malevolence that he felt when reading her mind recently was nothing more than the chaotic thoughts of a toddler brain struggling to cope with the reality of an adult soul.
‘Wait, is this why she had been so frenzied about truth and deception recently?’ Elrhain wondered as his gaze on the little girl became complicated.
「It’s okay.」 The girl suddenly chuckled. But her expression was melancholic. 「It’s okay for us to try things, take chances and blindly trust. Annamaria has Alex, and I have you. But Ellie…. We are us, and we are not dhionne. Will… the clan be as forgiving? 」
Elrhain shook his head. With the memories of their past life and a telepathic connection, not to mention the depth of understanding they had built for each other through and beyond death, Elrhain and Agwyn were a unit of one.
Between the two of them, there were no secrets. But if they told someone else about their transmigration, then it was no longer a secret.
「Exactly.」 Agwyn nodded, reading his thoughts. 「That’s why we have to make this right. We have to explain the source of our esoteric knowledge in a way that our family won’t ever suspect us of soul possession or reincarnation. B-but then, the only way to do that is to lie!」 
The girl tapped her cheeks while tilting her head.「 What a conundrum, Ellie. What to do, Ellie?」
She smiled, then touched Elrhain’s nose. The sight reminded him of a time before she had been betrayed, before being hurt by Naomi.
「But I don’t want to lie.」 Agwyn muttered. She looked down and positioned a cushion under her. Her voice was a low whisper; the overlayed Uorian conversation they were having on the outside was also no louder than a murmur. 
None of them wanted to wake up the sleeping Cyra.
「Ellie, I love the clan. I love mommy, daddy, grandpa, Eluned, Dofnald and Auntie Lilian and Alleigh and Everyone! I don’t want to leave chances with them. Even if we lie and deceive, I don’t want to do a half-arsed job.」
「….」
「Hence, we correlate! We make our deception one that will turn into the truth as we live and grow on Earthloch. We tell them we saw lifelike, mystical, other-worldly lucid dreams of many things similar to what we read in the forgotten scrolls. Because that is true, the lucid dreams are true, and that we only saw ‘similar’, analogous events in our dreams is also true. 
We tell them of so many unquantifiable events in our dreams that one single Dhionne, Faediaga, Naeman, Faediaval, or Abugan living on Fanas Diosca, unless she was a godlike Beyonder beyond the sky realm, cannot possibly encounter in her limited cycles of lifespan. 
Moving pictures and fuzzy images from civilizations so foreign from each other all in one place, it is inconceivable to an average dweller of Fanas Diosca. 
It’s as if we are dreaming through the eyes of not one person but many hundreds, thousands, and even millions. We just don’t tell them what virtual reality is, what the internet is. So that they can never suspect that the souls of their babies’ bodies are foreigners to this world.」




Chapter 48 - Cajoling Her Highness

「.... That is still deception. Something you said you loathed. 」, Elrhain muttered carefully.
「I detest half-hearted self-justified deception without care for the subsequent consequences. I would rather shut up than speak lies someone can see through in minutes after calming down with a cup of fruit pulp. 
I-I’m confused. I know I am muddled right now, but what else should I do? You were the one who said you were terrified of our family finding out about our transmigration. I am too. 
You know, I was so relieved when you didn’t just gloss over the origin of our otherworldly knowledge. But imagine my shock when you tried to ad-lib away the second most crucial step, before confirming whether or not we are in the green! No, you thought just a few one-line two-paragraph white lies were sufficient. They! Are! Not! Dhionne are not that stupid. You are the stupid one!」
As she spoke, Agwyn grew more and more furious. Soon, she was flailing her arms up in the air agitatedly while Elrhain had to cover her mouth, urging her to keep it quiet. 
But the girl would have none of it. She let out her frustrations like the floods that plagued the Aenraad river.
「You always do that!」 She screamed, 「You dream up how to solve the healthcare, education, food, and other technological issues of Earthloch. You draft cosmic plans that even the most naïve ideologist would faint after seeing. 
But you fucking, always, without a sliver of self-preservation, forget to mind the details. Why do you think Sarah could screw you over back then? Why did you think you could actually ever monopolise a huge technological black box like the Single-Core Hydro Annihilator without splitting the pie? Who do you think had to sacrifice all their braincells to clean up your mess?
When you invest in up-and-coming firms and businesses and ideas in the Collective, you had an enormous team of analysts and planners in your institution. All you had to do was give out a general direction, and your thousands of employees and tens of supercomputers, and even the latest quantum computer, the Alpha Logic, which perished with us, would do your bidding.
But we don’t have a team of smart-arse university graduates, nor a godlike artificial intelligence here. And your enemies, those who suspect us, you, and want to take you away from me, won’t get dumber because of that.
When you think up know-hows and concepts like the academia, hospitals, alcohol distillation, rotational farming, steel forging, spatial-dynamics and calculus for your civilisation-building agendas, did you ever once give a second thought to this paltry lifeline that you call an ‘excuse’ you so perfectly handwaved?
Who is left but me to agonise on keeping your butt clean in this life? When we can’t even tell the whole fucking truth to our birth mothers? Great, now you can dream up the first banana peeler for all I care to make the folks' lives more comfortable. 
Don’t you worry. Your thankless girlfriend will take care of all the stuff you are too embarrassed about, too fart-brained to even give a lick. You can just go and ruminate on more essential questions. Like the meaning of life, free will, existence and all that other bull-crap you feed Vesiphis and Ysbail.」
Elrhain froze, jaws gaping wide at the sight of this new but familiar Agwyn. She was the spitting image of that time when Miramarja said she would marry her first boyfriend.
And just like then, she was merciless in her words and cruel in her gaze. The shame she so readily highlighted almost threatened to make Elrhain squeal in agony.
But she had also changed. She was volatile, like an unstable element that combusted with a single wrong touch. She was confused, as if her soul did not know how to handle the raw emotions of her young body.
Elrhain inhaled deeply.
How could he have not thought things through from Agwyn’s perspective all this while, and only agonised about what he saw, heard, or felt? If he did, maybe Agwyn would have had peace of mind and…
But the self-blame could wait for later.
Agwyn, she did not stop. She was in a frenzy. But Elrhain realised, she had to stop! 
Even as she tenderly caressed his forehead with that dark smile, kissed his cheeks with her baby lips, and constricted him into a death-like embrace with her pudgy arms.
「But at the end of the day, that’s fine. Lies, deceit, love for our family. It’s all secondary. I only really care about what mommy thinks, because you care about what mommy thinks. Really, they are all secondary to what really matters.
You. You are the only one that matters. Your interest is king. What you want to do is what I want. Since you care about what our family thinks of us, I will make sure that you, us, and they live in harmony.
Even if your actions are that of an irresponsible hypocrite. Like when you say you care about all this, but you act the opposite as if you actually don’t care at all, I will make up for your shortcomings. I will never let you meet a Naomi, Sarah, or the moles in the Collective that betrayed us, giving the three other nations the position of the Gigantomachy.
In our previous life, I pestered you till the very end. I made you adopt Miramarja with me. I forced you to devote in my life more than you ever really wanted. You created an entire company that revitalised the nuclear-wasted areas because I was too weak to do so myself. You handed the project over to me like a Taffy candy to a whining little girl without batting an eyelid. 
You bet your thousands of billions of credits on Gigantomachy because I had ties with the government. Then you died because of that selfishness of mine. So, in this life, do what you want. In this life, I will be your angel like you were mine in our last. Go build a kingdom, raise a civilisation, and-mmmmmph」
「I get it.」 Elrhain suddenly squeezed Agwyn’s cheeks with his palms, placing his forehead on hers with enough force to knock an average toddler out.
「Y-You do?」
「Yes.」 He said. His tone serene, like the flutter of a butterfly’s wings. 「I feel your resolve, Annie. Aww, God, I am so lucky. Never in my life did I think I would get an angel after dying. 」
「R-Really?」
Elrhain nodded, his eyes glazed over. 「Yes. But I have always been grateful. No way am I going to let my angel suffer without doing anything.」
「W-What?」 Agwyn looked bewildered, but the heat in her face did not leave. She was about to speak up again, but Elrhain did not let her.
「It’s fine. Really. Just like you, everything I do is for your own good. So, 」 Elrhain paused, then looked her deep into the eyes, 「So just go on a bloody vacation, you deranged shrew! Cause you really, bloody damn need one!」
Before Agwyn could comprehend what was going on, Elrhain took a deep breath and shouted at the top of his lungs, “CYRA! ANNIE SAYS SHE FORGOT HOW THE BIG GUY LOOKED LIKE BECAUSE WE HAVEN’T SEEN HIM FOR SO LONG!!”
***
Cyra took only a few seconds to get up from her bed and rush to their side with worry laden eyes. But that was more than enough time for Agwyn to grapple Elrhain down on the fluffy sheets and start thrashing him in a frenzy.
The boy, on the other hand, didn’t look hurt at all. The bite marks and scratches only served to make him look irresistibly egotistical as he pulled Agwyn’s hair, and the girl looked as if she could not stand the sight of his grinning mug.
Cyra separated them while fumbling in confusion, coddling them both to tell her what was wrong. But they remained silent, only Agwyn pouting with a Hmph!
And thus, the first official cold war in the two’s relationship in this world had at last started. And no one had any idea how to stop it.
The war didn’t halt the pampering, though. Despite the pouting, sulking, and crying when no one else was there, Agwyn was still as inseparable from Elrhain. Albeit silent, she seemed to cling onto him even tighter, which made the situation even more perplexing.
Bromwyn, who had heard the word of his daughter apparently forgetting his face, rushed back from a gheist wave subjugation in less than a day while howling all the way.
The goofy giant had tears in his eyes as he held the tiny Agwyn in his gigantic palms, even replacing Cyra as their night-time guardian. The man sang and danced and did all sorts of antics to hog all of Agwyn’s attention. Enough so that even his wife and Eluned starting looking at him with naked hostility.
But as the clan chieftain, Bromwyn was not one to be fazed by womenfolk in desperate times. 
“Here, lookie here, my princess.” Said Bromwyn as he dangled up a crystalline bone curved into a Kolexen-like shape, just out of Agwyn’s reach. “Behold! We have a mean Kaloxen leader that wants to run away from the herd. Clop clop clop! Oh no! Whatever shall Earthloch do? At this rate, all Kaloxen will escape.”
Bromwyn dramatically gasped. Elrhain rolled his eyes.
The giant man then took out another ruby-red bone carving, “But fear not! For we have Alleigh, the mighty red Pengyte! Rawr!”
At first, the girl was adamant, silent in her dissent at both Elrhain and the clan. She did not want to play along with what the little boy had planned, nor give even a glance at the adults’ silly frolics. 
Eluned’s gentle lullabies, Cyra’s doltish raspberries, Dofnald’s cool head pats, Thundham’s tall tales and Lilian’s so interesting displays of magic were totally ineffective.
… for the first few days.
Alas, though Agwyn’s mind was unwilling, her toddler body could not possibly look away from all of Bromwyn’s fun antics for long. Because initially, the Agwyn of this world turned out to be a girl who would get distracted by a butterfly for hours on end!
“Hihihi! Again, go again!” Agwyn clapped, bouncing up and down. 
Bromwyn had the idea to play as Alleigh himself today. 
It was a Jackpot! 
Being the smart chieftain that he was, he got on all fours and took the two kids on a horsy ride all over the mountain. After one exhilarating round of what felt like a roller coaster ride on the peaks of the Alps, Agwyn, who was picked up from Bromwyn’s back by Cyra, reached her arms in the big man’s direction and kept pleading with a pinkish face.
Elrhain, who heaved his guts out on the side, suspected if Agwyn’s enthusiasm was truly out of enjoyment of the ride or pleasure at seeing him suffer.
But his complaints fell on deaf ears. 
The love and care did not stop there. Every one of their close family showered Agwyn and Elrhain with snuggles like there was no tomorrow. Delves down in the caves, gheist rides on flying Gurumba’s, and even a lake tour on a magical wooden canoe with all their cousins.
And Bromwyn was there with them, regardless of sun, rain or moon. It looked like this episode had really spooked the hulking man. 
No matter the reason, a cute dumpling daughter forgetting her father’s face was the biggest, cruellest punishment a man of Bromwyn’s intellect could ever face. 
So, he, and everyone else, practically worshipped Agwyn like an idol so that she would forget no family member’s face ever again.
Elrhain could see that everyone had been on tiptoes after Agwyn and he revealed strange knowledge. Immediately after, everyone realised something was wrong with Agwyn’s mental state. They took the issue as seriously more than they did manna-riogh collapses and gheistrums outbreaks.
As if for many days, making the little girl happy was their sole goal for living. And although Elrhain hated to admit it, they succeeded with flying colours. 
Not soon after, Agwyn was back to her usual self, giggling at frogs doing cart flips in the mountain streams. 
…. at least with other people. Even Siani and Ysbail, whom she didn’t seem to like much, were all chummy with her during the daily cultivation classes.
She was only mean to Elrhain. No sharing fishes, fruits, or glittering insect shells. She kept constricting him like a python while asleep, and definitely no smooches in public. 
The adults didn’t know what to do regarding their fight, even though they successfully uplifted Agwyn’s mood. 
This was the first serious quarrel the two kids had. Judging by the few shamans, mages, and that one Naeman witch that had visited the two to do some cryptic magic and spooky wizardry, the adults might even have thought that their fight had to do with the strange tether in their souls and not a real baby squabble.
But then, one day, after what had felt like a decade of ignoring each other, the little girl spoke at last with an unwilling grimace.
“Hmph. I was prepared to sacrifice so much for you. But not only do you not thank me, but you made fun of me in front of mommy and daddy! You take my resolve as a joke.”
Elrhain resisted the urge to tsk in exasperation. The girl had finally called for a truce, and hostile facial gestures would do him no good here.
“… and let you turn our relationship into an unhealthy co-dependency like our previous lives?” But he still had to correct her mistake. “Annie, aren’t you the one contradicting yourself here?”
“What do you mean?” Agwyn ignored Ysbail’s shouts from afar as she turned around on the tree stump stool to face him. 








Chapter 49 – Good News and Bad News
The kids had finished cultivating manna for the day and had just retired from the Elder’s rest.
Bromwyn arranged a picnic for the kids in an alcove near the cave entrance before rushing off, saying he had a bigger surprise waiting. 
This sudden feast was surprising enough if Elrhain had to praise. Bromwyn claimed it was a belated celebration of Cati, him, and Agwyn’s initiation in manna. But Elrhain thought it was another thing the family prepared to cheer Agwyn up.
The girl loved feasts, after all.
Unlike last time’s gathering at the cloistered hall, however, this was a kiddy picnic. Small, with only a few food items that the munchkins really loved.
Like the pulp of Moondew fruit and that whole roasted honey snail Vesiphis mowed down.
Elrhain, too, took an enormous bite out of another of said snail despite Agwyn’s glare, then offered the remaining to her.
The girl snorted again but opened her mouth nonetheless. 
Since today was the long-awaited day of reconciliation. She would let her ungrateful hubby worship her like a goddess. That’s the least he could do after the stunt he pulled.
Elrhain gladly complied as he answered her question. 「That night, you said how I always claimed I cared, but actually, I only acted like I cared. That I ignored details. 」
「Are you denying that? 」
「No, wait! Don’t bite my finger! Of course I am not denying! What you said is valid. In fact, all your points were absolutely legitimate. 」
Agwyn seemed to turn just a little happier, even though she glared. 「It's good that you know. 」
「Yes yes. But Annie, didn’t you tell me to trust you to make this relationship work? That we aren’t blindly jumping into it, and we will succeed even if we die? Yet look now, you suddenly started thinking about how to sacrifice your own happiness for mine. If you pamper me so much, I will become dependent on you. 
That’s not love. That is extreme co-dependency. A toxic that kills a relationship faster than a French holiday. A poison that turns love into hate. 」
「…. And this… this vacation is the solution? 」 Agwyn said with an indignant expression. But Elrhain could, at last, reread her feelings like a book. The part about negatively affecting their companionship definitely rattled her spirits.
Anything that had the slightest chance of wrecking her hard-fought love was kryptonite to her. And she knew better than to avoid it. To her, the only choice was to investigate, dissect, and finally resolve the problem faster than Ysbail could bite back after Elrhain flicked her forehead. And this was something he could capitalize on.
「I see you have forgotten what we learnt in meditation classes.」 Elrhain tapped his head, then his left chest. 「Remember, mindfulness is the answer. We will constantly be distracted in our relationship. Greed, lust, seduction, silence, and temptations are sure to come-」
「Like Ysbail and Siani’s tails?」
「.... right. That. But the moment we notice those distractions that can lead us astray, like your mental breakdown-」
「Hey!」
「Yes, that’s what it was. You scared the shit out of me. We clearly needed a change of pace, and you needed it more than me. Notice the distraction, change your pace with a deep breath, and then bring the concentration back to what really matters. This little time off with our family is our deep breath. 」
「...」
「Annie, don’t say things like how you can sacrifice even your family for me ever again, okay? You can’t hide how much you love everyone; we can read most of each other’s thoughts! Pretending is meaningless. So… So, even if this time off isn’t a solution, it’s the start of one.
I know we aren’t perfect. And I am sorry for saying you aren’t trying your absolute hardest to make me comfortable in this unusual relationship. 
What I mean is, I will keep making mistakes. But just like deep breaths, as long as we notice both of our mistakes fast enough, we can be mindful of what is poison and what is honey. We can definitely make it work. I really do trust you. Alright?」 
Agwyn didn’t answer. She stared at him like looking at a wonder. Like the focus of an asteroid mining laser, her gaze seemed to penetrate the immaterial and pierce straight into his soul for answers.
Just when Elrhain was about to snap his finger in front of her eyes to check if she was awake, Agwyn sighed, then asked.
「You say you don’t know the ins and outs of a love life. But then, how… does a staunch bachelor like you know so much about what’s good and bad in romantic relationships? Not to mention… how to fix those bad things. 」
Elrhain gaped, then averted his eyes with a fierce blush. He whispered a few words, but they were even quieter than the skitter of a caterpillar.
「What was that?」
「I said, I talked with Miramarja’s pre-marital counsellor!」
「Wait, why?」
「I couldn’t be at peace without confirming she absolutely knew what she was doing, or was just jumping the gun when Miramarja said she would marry that twerp!」
Agwyn narrowed her eyes, then tilted her head adorably. Finally, registering Elrhain’s shameful admission, she burst into an uncontrollable fit of snorts and giggles, plopping backwards onto the grass-covered ground.
「W-What’s so funny? In fact, aren’t you the irresponsible one for not profiling the twerp like you should as an ex-spy?」
「Aha hahaha! My, my heart. I can’t breathe, hahaha. P-Pre-marital counsellor! Profiling! You stalker!」 
「Stop it!」
「Hahaha!」
Elrhain complained, and Agwyn laughed. But there was no mirth on Agwyn’s face, not even mock. What was there was something Elrhain couldn’t see because Agwyn was lying on her back, her face hidden behind her palms and cackles.
But Elrhain knew. All the silence, all the madness, and all her uneasiness had already vanished into the late morning wind with her childlike laughter.
****
The servants cleaned up the place after the small feast ended. Elrhain glanced at them, recognizing some familiar figures.
That pretty blondie who always sneaked him fresh leaf-berries, that gruff man with fangs who seemed to be his father’s close friend despite their status difference.
As if they noticed his gaze, the servants looked back and smiled. Their smiles deepened, seeing Agwyn rolling like a kitten beside where Elrhain sat.
The boy could only facepalm.
“Rhainy! Gwynnie!” Ysbail toddled her way near, holding Cati’s hand. Howell strode behind them with a hunting spear hung on his back.
The group had left them alone for a while at Elrhain’s behest, and none of them complained as they were keen enough to notice the marital undercurrents. But Agwyn’s current state let them know of the long-awaited peace.
“Me lords,” Howell said with a toothy smile. It was pretty terrifying with his jagged shark teeth. “Finally, my day has come, again! I talked to pa today. Said we can finally go fishin’, again!”
““Really?””
Elrhain exclaimed while Agwyn stood up in a hurry. Could this be the surprise the big guy had planned?
Howell nodded, “Yup. But can’t in our lakes or in Sister Saphur’s place. Says only Sagathan is safe; dunno why, though. Pa told the watch persons to take us to Onthoakt Haragol’s lil’ village.”
“Haragol?”
“Them scale folks’ place is one of the villages by the Sagathan shore. Also,” Howell scratched his chin, having the full attention of 9 glittering eyes, “Pa said you know’em, apparently.”
Elrhain did, in fact, know Haragol. Just not his name.
When the old man came walking up the mountain with a jolly smile on his face alongside Watch Captain Anouk, Agwyn excitedly jumped up.
“It’s the claw handed grandpa!” 
***
Haragol was an Onthoakt house. One of the newest in fact, and was ennobled only a few cycles before the Siaglas Reanakty. Just like the Siaglas, they were in the faction that directly answered to the Earthloch main house.
“It is this old man’s pleasure to meet you again, little prince and princess. This Randuman Earthloch Haragol will… Is something the matter, young princess?” The old man with hands like a dragon and scales like one too spoke with a humble bow. But he noticed Agwyn scuttling around him like a fox kit, not minding his greetings, searching for whatever had captured her attention.
“Ey, where is she?” Agwyn asked.
“…. The princess means?”
“Don’t play dumb! Where is the cute little sister I saw last time?! You said you’ll let me let Ellie look after her!”
“Aye! My granddaughter.” Randuman realized. The older man laughed. “The princess actually remembers that.”
“Of course! T-That sister is so cute. Ysbail can’t even compare.”
“Hey!”
Randuman looked amused, seeing Ysbail trying to hug Agwyn with her tiny arms as if demanding an explanation. He patted his ruddy hide tunic and said, “Little Ruba is awaiting the princess in the lakeside of our new village. This Onthoakt is proud to at last host the two shining stars of Earthloch for today. As commanded by the chieftain, I will prove that the nobles under the main house are far better at hunting aquatic gheists than the likes of Reanakt Saphur!”
“Eh. Sister Saphur always praised ya though, old man Haragol. You don’t like her? Too bad…” Howell’s mood suddenly plummeted. He twiddled his fingers and muttered under his breath, “Sis’ll be sad if I tell her….”
“Please don’t! Haha, this old man jests. Of course, what we have is a friendly rivalry. Friendly!” Elrhain could swear he saw sweat streak down Randuman’s forehead as he tried to cheer Howell up and smirked. 
This Reanakt Saphur was a noble who followed the snob, Elder Sonora. But her personality was a world’s apart. She was one of the nicest, purest, dumbest adults Elrhain had ever met. And Elrhain knew Cyra and Bromwyn!
A few days ago, he and Agwyn had visited her settlement. It was a quaint little place built on the banks of one of the smaller lakes in the Lochuir area. There, they had their first boat ride in this world.
Despite the cold war still ongoing back then, the two had certainly enjoyed it. The spectacle of cultivators grappling with aquatic gheists was unforgettable. So was the passion as many normal dhionne, servant families hauling and processing the freshwater catch hunted by the cultivators.
The face of a mermaid maiden, the Reanakt who could shapeshift, flashed past Elrhain’s mind. Indeed, she was the type to be devastated when anyone, even a servant, talked badly of her behind her back.
Weirdly though, Elrhain could imagine that bubbly maiden and this jolly old man having a friendly rivalry.
‘But another fishing village, huh….’ Elrhain scratched his chin. Usually, if the settlement had people catching fish, a particular creature would also make its home there. A creature of cuteness of such epic proportions that no girl under the age of ten cycles could possibly control themselves in their presence.
As such….
“Ah! Fish Gembins? I mean, do you have Fish G-Gremlins?” Agwyn, Ysbail, and even Cati, who was still trying to crack one of the roasted nuts from the feast, grabbed onto Randuman’s sleeve and stared up with their seven pitiful eyes.
“Why, we certainly do. I have heard that the princess is especially fond of that Ahnmigheist. Worry not, for even our Fish Gremlins are far more ferocious than any of their brethren found elsewhere. 
In the bid to devour the fish filth we offer, they will fear no man or monster. They are far larger, wickeder, and potent at decimating gheists of the lakes for their internal black flesh than even the undergods!”
“…. Huh?”
“But shall we be on the move now, my little lord and lady? It will take less than a half-hour to reach my tiny abode. 
I have already spoken with the chieftain and chieftainess regarding our plans for the day. If I remember correctly, today, it shall be young mistresses Cati and Ysbail and young masters Howell, Vesiphis, and Cadfael accompanying you, no?”
“HUH?”









Chapter 50 – Sagathan’s Shores

The group of seven kids and two adults made their way down the mountain in a cheerful mood. The pathway that led to the rim of Lake Sagathan, where the Haragol village was now settled, passed by a scenic route of verdant forests and fields of blossoming flowers. 
The trip was pleasant; the air was sweet. The kids were chattering about everything in the world as they eagerly looked forward to a relaxing boat ride; not a worry of the world could damp their mood. 
They wouldn’t have to wait long for their wishes to be realized either. Because the entrance to the Elder’s rest where the little feast was held was on the main house’s mountain, which was relatively close to the Loch Sagathan Temple complex.  
Randuman and Captain Anouk jumped from one tree branch to another in the jungle canopy, startling the critters and birds of the forest into panic with their mighty manna filled movements. From a bush of spiky berries, an entire family of bizarre-looking black rats with gigantic eyeballs scampered out at the commotion, only to get in the way of two energetic teenagers.
Vesiphis and Cadfael, who seemed to be in an unspoken race of dominance, had no trouble keeping up with the adults. Their eyes crossed, bearing unending rivalry as they sprinted on the trail like little ninjas. While it was the Alleigh Express that carried the quadrilateral alliance of Elrhain, Agwyn, Cati, and Ysbail behind them. 
Howell too occupied a spot on the Red Pengyte’s back, excitedly talking about how he was going to catch a Sawmouth Snapper and Rockfin Crocofish, two typical gheists of Lake Sagathan with the new fishing techniques his pa had taught him.
But unlike Cati and Ysbail, Elrhain and Agwyn’s mind was not on the fish enthusiast, as they stared as discretely as they could towards the shadowy brat’s back.
「My guess is,」 Elrhain stroked his chin with a severe expression. But his toddler face made that action look all the cuter. 「He wanted to be the shoulder to cry on?」
「Ew!」 Agwyn winced. 「Ellie, so gross. I always told you watching those love pentagon dramas was unhealthy for you. They normalize infidelity!」
「…. Comrade Annie, I feel you have a wrong impression of me. I only watch those dramas for human psychology research!」
「A-anyway, even if your bullock crap deduction is accurate, that’s even grosser. I wondered why the black meanie has been greeting me every morning recently. As expected, he didn’t want to apologize but had ulterior motives!」
「Eh, I think uncle Morys is at least not like that. Mother and Father were quite flustered when he kneeled down and kowtowed, despite being the venerable Watch Commander. 
I guess uncle Morys wants Cadfael to normalize relations with us, while this black meanie keenly perceived that we were having a fight. But, well, let’s give him the benefit of the doubt. How complex could a seven-year, err, seven cycle old’s thinking be?」
「Ewwww! No way!」
Agwyn pinched her nose with her left hand, then squeezed Elrhain’s with her right. Ysbail giggled, and the adventurous little toddler did the same with Cati and Howell.
***
Lake Sagathan was the largest lake in all of Uorys Diosca, not just of Earthloch dominion or the territories of the North. Elrhain was unsure exactly how far it stretched or how deep it delved, but even from the very peaks of the mountains south of lake Sagathan, he could not see the other shore.
Lochuir, the central circle of Earthloch, was an area mainly drawing from the southern shores of the great lake further southwards, with only part of it reaching east and west. If there was a precise border, which there wasn’t, it would have started from the ruined Loch Sagathan Temple and ran along the banks of the Aenraad river for a few hundred kilometres.
As it was the largest noble dominion of Earthloch directly under the rule of the main house, it contained approximately a hundred lower noble families overseeing a few good thousand spirit blessed lakes. This also included Elrhain’s Siaglas Reanakty and Randuman’s Haragol Onthoakty.
But both the Siaglas and Haragol houses, along with every other noble house in all of northern Uorys Diosca, had to be relocated within a few ten kilometres radius around the central township of Lochuir because of the collapse.
And when this shift first started, the central nobles who were already based around Lochuir reached the township the fastest. As direct followers of the main house, the land allocated to them was also the best.
It wasn’t the many lofty mountain peaks that touched the sky, nor on the Aenraad riverside deltas, from which many tributaries branched out in all directions. It wasn’t in proximity to the smaller spirit lakes either, such as like Reanakt Saphur’s fishing hamlet the group had visited before.
It was directly inside the lush Lochuir valleys, around the centre-most few kilometres near the lake Sagathan estuary. 
On the small hilly peaks, dwarfs compared to the Everest like apexes just a few ten kilometres away, such as Onthoakt Slanout’s village, or near the mouth of where river Aenraad met the great lake, directly under the shadow of the Loch Sagathan temple.
The safest place with a forest of bounty, a river of treasures and the largest manna-rich lake of all.
Among them, villages and communities which depended on fishing rather than hunting, foraging, or ‘farming’ on land would prefer to be near Sagathan at all costs. But there was only so much room near the estuary.
So, they spread out, with each village getting a parcel of land throughout the southern shores of Sagathan. The Haragol Onthoakt, Randuman’s hamlet, was one such place. It was barely a few kilometres away from the Earthloch Mountain, the residence of the main house.
And it differed vastly from Reanakt Saphur’s village, even though both were reliant on fishing as means of survival.
The Haragol village was situated a way out of the sandy white lakeshore. Agwyn gaped at the beach with glittering eyes. Lochuir had a lot of scenic sights, but it lacked a coastline. 
But this, the sparkling sand and fresh breeze of the moist wind. This made up for it more than enough!
They could see a bustling community from the last mountain near the lake with about ten or twenty houses. There was a small fence surrounding it, with three entrances laid about. The houses inside were built adequately with spacious yards and cattle sheds, not ramshackle like those in Onthoakt Slanout’s place.
Elrhain guessed that such comfort was another perk granted to Earthloch’s direct followers.
The village proper was also of an eye-pleasing layout. Half was situated inside the lush mountain jungle, cool shadows of the Nuciferous trees blocking the harsh heat of the Sohwl. The other half reached towards the sandy beach, facing the lake directly so that the breeze would have a guided path to flow inside.
Dhionne of all ages were busy with their daily lives. The mortals hauled one maritime catch after another, hunted by the cultivators. In contrast, the cultivators prepared themselves for another adventure out on the lake deeps. 
The elderly gathered the skewered Crudefins and bound the Medium Bluetorts from the shoreline all the way to the village centre. The gheists were gutted, the waste was discarded, and the meat was divided out.
East of the village, large wooden fence-like structures stood, spanning a few meters long and with gaps too large to be used as an effective defence.
Various womenfolk carried baskets full of small aquatic catch and hung strips of fish, frogs or lizards on hooks on the fence-like structures.
“It is the drying scaffold, prince Elrhain,” Randuman explained, noticing Elrhain’s gaze.
Elrhain nodded while grabbing Agwyn’s collar so she couldn’t run off towards the swarm of muscular fish gremlins. After subduing his unruly fiancé, he asked, “How long does it take to dry one batch of meat?”
“Somewhere from five to seven days. Proper gheist meat with earthen manna takes longer, however. Prince Elrhain, I guarantee that the dried fish strips of my village are far superior to the shabby produce you had in that lass Saphur’s place. I will certainly prepare the best of the best in the feast us Haragol’s have prepared this evening!”
Elrhain rubbed his tummy. 
Two feasts in one day? Could he really handle it? 
His wandering eyes met Vesiphis’s, who nodded at him with a solemn expression.
‘Who am I kidding! Of course, I can.’
Elrhain grinned, then asked Randuman as they trotted down the last stretch of the mountain trail, “What are those, by the way?”
On the shore of lake Sagathan, many wooden canoe-like boats were placed on the dry sandy beach. Since this place didn’t have a proper pier or wharf, there was no place to securely anchor or tie a boat throughout the night—considering they even had anchoring technology. 
Elrhain reckoned the locals dragged the boats onto the shore to a distance safe from receding tides after a day of fishing, lest they wash away.
What caught Elrhain’s eyes was behind that. About a hundred meters into the lake, tall, thin bamboo-like posts sprung up from the water. They encircled a zone of area in a half-circular shape measuring around one or two square kilometres. 
Each post was five to ten meters apart, and the two ends of the half-circle touched the lakeshore, creating a cordoned region detached from the rest of the lake.
“That’s the Lontwood barrier. Lake Sagathan is, after all, a manna-reach treasured land. Many ferocious gheists and the rioghs that spawn such gheists lurk within. But the magic cast on the barrier posts stop them from entering inside the half-moon region.”
Elrhain nodded. He had spotted a bunch of kids splashing around in the lake, playing a strange game of tag inside that semi-circle.
It’s good that the Onthoakt had taken measures so that they won’t turn into fish food. There was no such thing in Reanakt Saphur’s village, and dhionne without enough strength were strictly forbidden from entering the lake waters.
Either they didn’t erect a barrier because of resource scarcity, or Reanakt Saphur had other means planned for her people. 
Either way, magic was freaking convenient!
As they talked about this and that, the team, at last, left the mountain trail and reached the south-eastern entrance to the village. 
It might have been Elrhain’s imagination, but he felt a magical feeling wash over his body when his foot crossed the invisible line separating the mountains from the lake village.
The cacophony of the forest creatures, bugs and beasts alike that had constantly accompanied them until now faded away far into the background. Replacing it were the cries of water birds and the slosh of waves as they crashed onto the beach. 
The smell of water in the wind reminded him of the many sprouting fishing stations on the Greek Peninsula of the collective, eager to make their ancestors proud by conquering the Mediterranean life once more.
Unlike on Earth, however, there were no large industrial fishing machines here. Nor were there sailors in white uniforms, TeEich-Submarines to mine the seabed for hydrogen salt, or seaside resorts packed with thrilling water attractions.
But the ethereal feeling, the sense of self he perceived from the dhionne whose lives revolved around the lakes and its blessing, was the same.
Elrhain looked up and saw a flock of white seagull like birds circling the skies. Beneath his feet were soft yellowish-white sand mixing with the soily ground. In front, was the Haragol settlement with a glistening lake as the backdrop.
The aroma of dried and cooked seafood, that slightly pungent yet savoury scent that tickled his nose, drifted everywhere. 
The rhythmic shanty of dhionne men as they hauled a gigantic shark-like four-footed gheist to be butchered. The freshly harvested seaweed was left in a giant pile by the side, ready to be dried or boiled. And the large reed wicker baskets were full of lake critters such as shrimps, crabs, clams and creels. Every so often, teenage girls would pick them up and head towards the drying scaffolds.
Certainly….
‘I think I might already like this place better than Reanakt Saphur’s.’






Chapter 51 – Pets and Picnics

"N-No, Gwynnie, I don't want to!" Ysbail screamed as she ran away with her hands protecting her nose.
"Ysbail, you coward. Didn't you say you wanted to hug fwish gembins with me?" Agwyn shouted at Ysbail’s retreating back, even though she also eyed the bulky abominations warily. Her lisp returned without her knowing.
"No!" The night-coloured toddler with the cutest tail in all of Uorys Diosca cried, "They no fishie gremlin. They monsters."
"Gwynnie, t-those teeth are sharper than mister Alleigh's…." Cati, also shaking like a scared goldfish, hid behind Howell as she pointed her trembling finger towards the heap of ominous yet fluffy darkness devouring the waste parts of the butchered gheists.
Elrhain gulped in shock too; cold sweat streaked down his back.
The fish gremlins he saw in other fishing villages and Lochuir proper were cute furry little things. They were basically puffballs with two beady eyes, four tiny paws that always made Elrhain wonder how they even walked with them, and a kitten-like mouth.
An adorable entity that reminded Elrhain of a mascot character from a children's cartoon on Earth, something that definitely should not exist in real life but only in imagination.
But fish gremlins did, and they were cute as hell. So, he didn't mind when grandpa Thundham gave him that moniker.
…. Though Thundham probably called him a fish gremlin because of his prodigious appetite and not his cuteness.
As he learned some time ago, Fish gremlins loved everything that dhionne didn’t from fish and other aquatic catch. A sort of symbiotic creature that had adapted to live with dhionne like the cats and dogs of earth. 
They were also the waste cleaners of the river and lakeside communities, gobbling up the intestines, bile, rotten flesh, and other dirty things as though they were Michelin rated delicacies.
And with each bite, they would balloon up before bursting into a sprinkle of black crystals.
Elrhain, and even the shamans and mages of Earthloch, did not know how their biology worked. Probably some magicial evolutionary mishap.
He only knew that the black crystals were rich in rot aspected manna and were one of the staple tools for farmhand servants.
That's why Earthlochians valued fish-gremlins so much, bordering worship. For their cuteness and for their usefulness.
'But what the hell is that?!' Elrhain could not look at them any longer.
Bulging muscles under their furry coat, bloodshot eyes like a vampire’s with pupils as big as watermelons, and a gaping mouth full of fangs far more jagged than a deep-sea horror's. 
They moved in formation like a squad of mafioso. Their eyes glowering at dhionne and gheist alike, terrifying Alleigh into hiding his enormous mass behind the tiny Agwyn. Every few seconds, their barbed tongue would fling out, licking their bloodstained teeth.
Other fish-gremlins would whimper around areas where the villagers processed aquatic gheists like cute foxy kits, then rush in all at once for their happy meal.
Not these. These fish gremlins were organized; they were disciplined.
The dhionne did not give them treats. The dhionne offered them tributes. 
One by one, in a strict line of hierarchy, starting from the largest and most menacing fish gremlin of all to the least scary one with only eight jutting fangs rather than eighteen, they devoured their allocation of filth set aside respectfully by the village folks.
Afterwards, like an army of Lovecraftian shoggoths, they would warble their way to a designated area isolated off with a fence of glowing runes. Their skin would split open like many maws of darkness, and tens of tendrils would slither out, each holding a crystal the colour of hatred.
"…. On second thought, I think I am good." Agwyn scrunched up her nose, then carefully led the whimpering red husky out of harm's way.
"Haha! There is nothing to fear, princess Agwyn. The fish gremlins of our village may look heroic, but at heart, they are just as ravenous as a bloodthirsty Racadger!"
"…. Old man. I don't think you understand what kids like." Elrhain muttered under his breath. Captain Anouk and Vesiphis nodded in unison.
"Hahaha! My daughter-in-law and son say the same things. As expected of the prince, so keen at such a young age. Though, my granddaughter seems to revel in their company."
"Of these fish gremlins?"
Randuman thumped his chest in agreement. "She even learnt to eat like them! Even the cruellest beast of the dark forest cannot equal how she feeds. Only someone as noble and brave as the chieftain, only someone so ruthless as the watch commander, can contest that appetite!"
"…"
"But enough of that. Why talk of Ruba here when you can meet her directly? The princess would assuredly make pleasant companions with her!"
"Yeah, poor girl," Elrhain said. He didn't deign Randuman with an explanation when the old man looked at him with a bewildered expression.
***
The lake water was amazingly blue, like the Aegean seas but far more transparent. But Elrhain knew it wasn't salty.
A few dhionne tribesmen of the Haragol Onthoakty were arranging their boats and equipment by the half-circle barrier. The fierce rays of the Sohwl cast their shadows long. The lack of dark clouds in the sky, despite being monsoon, made today a fine day for a fun adventure on the lake.
The cultivators agreed. 
They checked their fishing spears, thick manna infused ropes, medicinal paste sacks and gheist repelling powder pots one last time.
After which, they would push the parked boats into the lake waters. When the boat was stably afloat, they would jump on before rowing to a section of the lake where their target gheists frequented.
Though Elrhain called them boats, that was only a rough translation of the Uorian word to Earth Common. They were more like canoes, made from hollowed-out trees and processed by the mages and shamans in magical ways.
These primitive vehicles were yacht-like in size, with large areas to store the catch within. It wasn't surprising, considering how mind-bogglingly massive the trees of the primordial forests of Earthloch could grow.
"Arf! Awrooo!" 
Elrhain turned his eyes towards the yelping husky and groaned.
"So, you don't want to be friends with her?”
"I-I do too!" Agwyn denied, but her tiny legs didn't take one step towards the 'cute wittle sister' she was so thrilled to meet.
Ruba Earthloch Haragol, the girl in question, was gnawing into Alleigh's tail as the towering red Pengyte ran around the area in horror.
"Come to think of it, the girl was drooling like crazy when we met her last, right?"
Agwyn wanted to deny again, but she involuntarily nodded.
"Gwynnie, this is the cute big sister?" Ysbail tugged Agwyn's sleeves and asked with a smug smile. "Didn’t you say she was cuter than me?”
Agwyn didn’t reply. She picked Ysbail up despite her screams and, with a “Teach you to be smart with me!”, cannonballed into the lake, raising squeals from kids and adults alike.
The village children watched the two drenched dumplings in wonder, stopping their game of tag in the semi-circle barrier. 
It took only a minute for Agwyn to take the helm. And thus, the first-ever competition of Splash Meister Supreme of Fanas Diosca started.
Before long, Cati and Howell also joined in on the fun, raising cries of discontent as they shamelessly backed up their princess.
“Well,” Elrhain cracked his neck, “We did come for a water picnic. Wait for me!”
Vesiphis, who was debating if he should go or not, saw a black shadow move from the corner of his eyes.
It was Cadfael.
“Y-You. You want to play water-splash too?” The winged boy spoke with a shocked face. He looked at the kids who were having the time of their lives, then towards this gloomy cousin of his who looked haughtier than the grand elder himself.
“Play? This is why you are still a whelp.”
“What did you say?!”
“Whelp with bad ears. So naïve trusting a mere Onthoakt house’s barrier to be enough for the princess’s safety.”
“Says the guy who can’t wait to lick her footsteps. You’re the bigger threat!”
Cadfael shot his head around and grasped the hilt of his sword. 
“What, wanna fight?”, Vesiphis smirked.
“Awoooo!” 
But before the conflict could break out, the terrified husky along with Ruba, who chewed the end of his tail with unbroken concentration, rushed past them with the velocity of a rampaging Kaloxen. 
Alleigh yelped one last time and plunged into the water, splashing a massive wave ten meters high and twenty out.
“Alleigh! Bad!” Agwyn shrieked.
“Does this mean Alleigh wins the splashing competition?” Elrhain exclaimed in indignation
“Ahhh! Lady Ysbail got tackled by a flying Ruba!” While the village kids watched in dread as Ysbail got whacked on the head by Ruba, who flew in like a torpedo.
Agwyn scolded the Red Pengyte with mean eyes. But Alleigh didn’t care. The husky finally looked at ease, even though his forehead was constantly thwacked by two tiny fists. 
Elrhain and Howell were more concerned about who won the contest. And Cati, along with the village children, hurriedly grabbed onto the wailing Ysbail and stunned Ruba before the subsiding waves created by Alleigh could sweep them away.
Though the adults didn’t look worried. 
Perhaps the water wasn’t that deep inside the barrier, even many meters out, or maybe there was more magic to the barrier than Randuman had described.
Cadfael and Vesiphis, now soaked head to toe as collateral damage, were no longer in the mood for their nth conflict these few months.
Vesiphis wanted to say some more, but Cadfael simply ignored him, going down into the lake while speaking with a concerned tone, “Princess Agwyn, are you hurt?”
… only to have a ball of mud flung to his face with a screech from said princess, “Go away, creep!”
With an outstretched hand frozen in the air, Cadfael was dumbfounded. The boy then lowered his hand and scooped up some water to wash the dirt off.
Soon, after Ysbail insisted she wasn’t hurt with both tears in her eyes and a toothy grin on her face, the kids started playing water games again. Vesiphis, too, at last, threw his doubts away and officially entered as an adversary in Elrhain, Howell, and the village boys’ multi-way war to become the greatest water flinger in all of Uorys Diosca.







Chapter 52 – Battle Beneath the Lake

The waters of Lake Sagathan were as clear as blue glass windows. The light of the Sohwl seemed to refract in every direction, carrying with it a mystical shine that illuminated the brilliant indigo body, both above and below.
Near the shore, where the depth was not great, one could clearly see the sandy floor rife with colours. 
There were corals, conchs, crabs and many other denizen creatures scurrying about the lake bed in their daily struggle to survive.
But a few hundred meters out, far outside the Lontwood barrier, the translucent waters did not allow the sunlight to delve so deep. 
The blue morphed into the deep colour of the unknown, and only a hint of the abyss that lurked without life would reflect on an onlooker’s eyes.
“[Claw-Crimson Spear]!!!”
But today, the silence of the abyss was disturbed.
A young man with menacing red claws shouted aloud with a manna-filled roar as he swiped the crimson glowing spear in his hand outwards, aiming his fury towards the incoming gheist. 
The gheist, a monstrosity that looked like the cross between a turtle and a crocodile, merely grunted without even breaking its charge.
Clink!
The spear tip slashed the glossy outer shell of the creature after failing to pierce it. The attack only left an insignificant, barely noticeable nick on that hard armour.
The young man grunted, feeling the painful feedback in his arms. But he had no time to rest. 
He flowed his swiping motion into a blocking one and hurriedly parried the fierce assault of the earthen ranked Rockfin Crocofish.
“Ugh!”
The inertia of the impact threw him tens of meters away, but the soft water around helped cushion the force. 
Despite that, he tasted blood in his mouth. Luckily, the young man’s Nascent Totem was sturdy enough to withstand that full-powered rush head-on.
If he were an early Earthen realmer and not mid-Earthen, he was sure his treasured totem-spear would have snapped.
“Brother Romero! I cannot hold on for much longer.” The young man yelled as he desperately avoided the snapping jaws of the enraged Rockfin Crocofish. The gheist flared, seeing its attack miss once again. 
It circled around the young man, preparing for another manna powered charge.
By now, it had already noticed the injuries of its prey. The supernatural instincts of a gheistrum compelled it to not give an ouch of rest to the four-limbed game.
Seeing that, the gill-like slits which opened on the young man’s scale-covered neck constricted and relaxed, the deep breath transferring some of the life and manna from the surrounding waters into his body.
“Ha. Rister, looks like you’ve been slacking off in your training. To not be able to defeat even a weak Earthen Crocofish. And in front of the prince and princess no less!” A playful voice reverberated from above. “After today, be prepared for harsher methods of underwater combat practice. This time even father can’t stop me from whipping you into shape.”
“This is no time for jokes!” The young man referred to as Rister grunted. He wanted to retort that he had already hunted two gheistrums before this and was already out of manna before the battle started. 
But Rister likewise knew that it was just an excuse. As the second son of the Onthoakt, he should be able to fight these beasts day in day out, rather than crying like a baby in front of the clan royals.
Parrying another strike from the enraged gheist, he concentrated the manna at the tip of his spear according to the Haragol House’s recently acquired cultivation method. 
There was no time to think so deeply about his next move, but the mockery from his elder brother had calmed him down.
Rister held back patiently, looking for a chance to counter-attack.
Finally, after what felt like hours, his wait paid off. His eyes flickered with an evil light as he spotted a gap and violently struck the side fin of the Crocofish as it drilled past him once again.
“Guaaaaaah!”
The stone-like fin of the creature shattered with an anguished roar. Reddish blood gushed out from the open wound and stained the surrounding waters into a cloud of murkiness.
“…. Bloody Gheistfur.” Young Rister cursed, not in the mood to celebrate his successful offence.
He had meant to use the opening of the wound to immediately skewer the gheist’s insides. But the darned beast was too fast and had already left his spear’s range before he could change his stance.
Now that its blood had drifted out with the water currents, his elder brother, the Haragol Mage Romero, could not guarantee that he could stop other gheists from rushing into this area after detecting the scent of wounded prey.
In other words,
“Aye, that would be enough.”
Rister sighed, raising some bubbles underwater. Before the sigh even completely escaped his gills, a brilliant ray of red light in the shape of a claw hit the Rockfin Crocofish square on the muzzle.
The gheist had been charging up manna for another rush with an enraged visage that demanded vengeance. But the sudden attack from above caught it entirely off guard.
“…. It pisses me off, but I can’t help it. I will at least score the last hit!” Rister cried out with complicated feelings. He knew he could not solo the gheist unless he was resolute enough to trade wound for wound. But at the same time, it did not feel great to fail a hunt in front of the Earthloch princess either.
Whatever the case, he would not miss the chance. 
Rister immediately activated one frame in his totemic soul. The nodes blazed with crimson manna, gushing through the spider-web like channels, shifting from immaterial to material.
In less than half a second, while Rister was still in his stance, winding up for a special attack, the manna appeared in reality inside his marrow core. It flowed through his meridians with the speed of light, and a savage grin emerged on the young man’s face.
Three fourth of a second, and he completed his stance. Rister poured the augmented manna into his spear through the apertures on his palms.
The spear tip glowed an imposing red, and the water in the surrounding started sizzling, threatening to spill out. 
But it didn’t, for the [Claw-Crimson Cultivation Technique] was the magic of controlling the heat inside water as quickly as a dragon can wield its claws!
Rister stared at the gheist straight into its beady eyes, and without giving it the chance to escape, 
“Eat this!” threw his manna-charged spear with the force of a volcano.
“[Claw-Crimson Spear Rush]!!!”
The gheist was still fumbling with the after-effects of Romero’s spell while wailing loudly. Usually, its uncanny instincts would have urged it to escape as soon as it noticed it was fighting one versus two.
But it was too late. Romero’s spell wasn’t so simple.
The Rockfin Crocofish only noticed the danger just as the spear tip reflected in its eyes.
“GUAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!”
Leaving one last cry of defiance, the Mid-Earthen realm Rockfin Crocofish was blasted backwards without a chance to fight back.
The spears momentum carried it diagonally upwards with a long train of blood floating in the lake waters.
By the time Rister reached its falling body to recover his Nascent Totem, the [Claw-Crimson Spear], from the gheist’s eye socket, it was long dead. 
The mighty gheistrum, which had even successfully injured the young Haragol scion, was now just another addition to the feast his house would host for their royal guests tonight.
****
“Wow, he used fire underwater!”
“U-Uncle Romero, can you teach me that spell? Pretty please? That plasma beam was sooooo cool!”
“Hmph. Hmph. Papa is the strongest. And papa didn’t use paksma bim! He used [Claw-Crimson Rending]! Hmph!”
“Tsk. Earthen realmer, yet still needs help to hunt a same ranked gheist. Well, this is an Onthoakt house, no doubt.”
Above the lake waters, on top of a large yacht-sized boat, the group of hyper-excited kids jumped up and down. 
After their fruitful time playing in the water, they had already changed into fresh pairs of attires. It was only after a nice afternoon snack did they resume their picnic, this time finally venturing out to the lake on a boat under Randuman’s safeguard. Captain Anouk had left their soaked clothes with the Haragol tribesmen to dry.
But no one had any mind to think about clothes anymore, even though Cati and Ysbail were deliberating how long it would take for their cute robes to dry without magic just ten minutes ago.
The two little girls were now, along with Agwyn and Elrhain, amazed senseless at the display of man versus gheist. 
A battle between two mid-Earthen realm entities, a hunt for prey. And it was underwater to boot!
The way Rister moved under the surface of the lake as if he was on dry land, his grace of a shark, no, an underwater dragon! His control over manna so much that even the lake currents couldn’t drag his spear down. It was almost as if the overflowing whirls of water underneath the lake had zero impact on his fluid movements.
Rister was flying underwater!
And that final spear throw. That giant-killing move was no different in destructive force than armour-penetrating plasma-tipped pile-bunkers.
If this was Earth, Rister could single-handedly take out a modern-day war submarine before anyone knew what happened. 
‘So this…. is the strength of an Earthen Realm cultivator. Freaking cheats!’ Elrhain screamed in dazed silence. Only Agwyn could hear his shock and awe. The very idea that an individual could possess such power was mind-boggling.
The fight had jolted Agwyn as well. But she was doing a better job covering it up, pestering Romero like a fish gremlin looking for treats. Even her apprehension towards Ruba, who was proudly preening on Romero’s lap, was long gone.
Elrhain was even more shocked at the fact that Rister’s might could even surprise him. 
He always knew in his head how overwhelming cultivators were. He had watched, read, played thousands of hours of fantasy dramas, Xianxia fiction, battle academy novels, and king killing chronicles.
Elrhain thought he was immune to the supernatural. That no matter how powerful magic could be, it couldn’t surpass his imagination. 
It didn’t. 
Rister was nothing compared to fictional characters like Son G*ku, Th*nos, and S*perman.
But seeing someone with enough energy inside him to rip a tank apart piece by piece was a whole together different experience than TV or virtual reality.
This… was reality.
And Rister was a mere Mid-Earthen realmer. Yes, Mere!
What about Bromwyn, who was Oceanic? Or Lilian, who was a Sky realmer?
Elrhain concluded. 
Cultivators were scary f*cking war machines!
He could not, in good faith, refer to anyone with Rister’s strength with the word, ‘mere’.
Elrhain shook himself out of the confusion and gave Cadfael, who made that last derogatory comment, an uneasy glance from the corner of his eyes. 
‘This freak might have zero EQ, but to think he can calmly critique Rister after seeing him defy the laws of physics to an absurd degree.
But wait. 
No, not just Cadfael. Howell, Vesiphis, and even Ysbail and Cati look as calm as a cocktail. They were only excited and not dismayed. Yes, physics or not, this was their reality. This is Fanas Diosca, where magic was possible. 
Am I…. The weird one for getting shocked? Am I, Annie?’
Agwyn turned back and stared at Elrhain with a complicated expression. She then closed her eyes slightly and shook her head.
‘Yeah. We are human. Earthlings. Weird sh*t is weird, no doubt about that.’
Elrhain let out a dispirited sigh, then turned his attention back to the conversation at hand. 
As Rister was swimming back with the fallen Rockfin Crocofish, Vesiphis could not let Cadfael’s comment towards the heroic young man pass.
“Cadfael, how dare you insult the Haragol house who so graciously host us tonight! Do you know no shame?” The winged boy said.
「Heh. Same as always. Vesiphis could be the most responsible class captain if he were a student in the Collective.」
Agwyn nodded, giggling as she grabbed Elrhain’s sleeves. 「Well, you did set him on the path of an Ace Manager!」
Though it would seem there was one person who didn’t even pretend to heed the ace manager’s word.
“What is wrong with telling the truth? To turn a blind eye to one’s weakness is to be a coward.” Cadfael replied, which incensed Vesiphis even more.
“There is a good way of saying something, then there is the stupid way. What you do is the most brainless way of antagonizing allies I have ever seen.”
“And how much exactly has a 7-cycle old whelp like you seen?”
Sharp words turned into mockery, which finally twisted into barbed insults without pretence. 
The atmosphere got more and more heated, and finally, even Ysbail and Cati huddled themselves behind Howell, away from the cross-fire of name-calling and fault picking.
“Hahahahaha!” It was then that their host, Randuman, burst out into a spurt of uproarious laughter. 
The older man thumped his chest with such force that a small shock wave beamed out, scaring Ysbail so much she fell down.
Sitting on the boat's bow, Romero coughed with an awkward expression as he patted the bewildered Ruba’s head.
“Father… could you please not?”
“Ah? Oh my. Did I scare young lady Ysbail?” Randuman looked down, and the tiny Ysbail nodded timidly, with tears in her eyes.
Randuman was about to speak up, but Ysbail herself suddenly interjected, “D-Don’t be m-mad. Black m-, no, cousin Cadfael i-is not smart. He speaks w-weird thingies. Don’t h-hurt us, please.”
A few moments of absolute silence. 
Even Cadfael, the not-smart-cousin in question, stood there without speaking or moving.
And then, ““HAHAHAHA!”” the oppressive quiet on the boat was mercilessly shattered by the simultaneous laughter of five kids and one old man rolling on the boat, laughing their backsides off.
“N-Not smart!”
“Weird things! Hahaha!”
“Ysbail, so mean.”
Cati was the first one to gather her bearing. She trotted to Ysbail’s side and hid the clueless girl behind her from Cadfael’s line of vision.
But surprisingly, the shadow boy did not look offended at that unintentional insult at all. He simply snorted; his face the picture of calm.
“Father, enough. You are a bad influence on Ruba!” It was Romero who could not stand it. 
Not Ysbail’s words, but his father acting no better than a 3-cycle old. He even had to stop his daughter from scuttling to Randuman’s side and imitating the old man’s cackle.
“Hahaha. What a treat. This Randuman hasn’t laughed like that in years.”
“Don’t lie!”
“Aye, yes. I shouldn’t lie. Don’t you worry, my young lady Ysbail. I am not so thin-skinned to harm children. Not to mention, you kids are our liege. I would rather slit my throat than harm an Earthloch.”
“D-Don’t.” Ysbail squeaked, her face paling even further. “Don’t slit!”
“I won’t, haha. Children, so amusing….” Randuman rubbed under his nose as he failed to control his snicker. 
“But as I said, we should not lie. Hence, I will admit without shame that young Lord Cadfael is absolutely right. Our Onthoakt house’s cultivation techniques are nothing compared to the main house’s.”
“It’s good that you know,” said Cadfael, much to Vesiphis’s disapproval.
Randuman continued, “In fact, the Grand Shamanka herself was the one to bestow the [Claw-Crimson Cultivation Technique] upon us when we were ennobled five cycles ago!”
The Onthoakt laughed some more, then suddenly changed the topic with a mischievous glint in his eyes, “So, young Lord Cadfael, Howell, and Vesiphis. I have a presumptuous offer for you. Today, how about trying to fish a gheist yourselves? What honour it would be if us Haragol’s could feast upon prey caught by none other than three of the shining scions of the main house!”










Chapter 53 – Audaciously Admit

“Eh?” the clamour onboard the boat stopped all at once as everyone looked at Randuman in unison. 
“Father, do you want our house the be the first to lose our noble title before even ten cycles pass?!” Romero groaned exasperatedly, a thick vein bulging in his temples. 
As the son of Randuman, he was the heir to inherit the next Haragol title.
And as the father of Ruba, the button-nosed little girl who sat on his lap with her feet dangling out of the boat’s edge, he did not want his house executed before she even grew up!
Romero, who looked about Bromwyn’s age, glared at his father. But the old man simply inclined his head in confusion.
“Why would they remove our title?”
“Let me count. First, you scared young Lady Ysbail until she peed her tunic.”
“I didn’t!” Ysbail protested.
“-Then you, as his host, proposed to let the intellectually challenged Royal scion fight gheist far above his level!”
Cadfael let out his trademark snort.
“And finally, we should also mention you beating up Reanakt Caelusius yesterday over a measly Halpig gheist! How many times is that this month? Onthoakt Ursan, Onthoakt Logison, and Reanakt Olbert from three villages over! Since when did Earthloch permit us to be so damn audacious?”
Elrhain nodded, agreeing with the man’s claims even though he felt the last point Romero mentioned had nothing to do with the current situation.
Ever since this morning, he, too, noticed that Randuman was beyond audacious compared to the other blue bloods he had met.
‘But, mister Romero.’ The boy looked at the Haragol heir as Romero told off his father. It was as if some floodgate deep inside him had flushed, releasing a weeks’ worth of pent-up vitriol.
‘Aren’t you the most audacious one?!!!’
Agwyn sensed his emotions and giggled while looking up at Romero as though he were a wonder.
「Well, like father like son. Right?」
「Yup!」 Elrhain vehemently agreed with her observation. 
Even if Randuman was the more nonchalant type, and Romero the type to nag his guts out just like Vesiphis, they were both idiots with lips too loose for their own good! 
Then there was Ruba, who tried to eat Alleigh as if he wasn’t a mid-oceanic realm gheistrum.
…. Something was seriously wrong with the upbringing of this family.
Elrhain scratched his nose, bringing his awareness to the matter at hand. He considered it over for a moment and decided he wasn’t too worried about Randuman’s absurd proposal.
It was hard to find many adults as out of touch with common sense as this claw-handed grandpa. Also, no matter how over-confident Cadfael was, Vesiphis at least had an excellent head on his neck. No way would someone sensible like him ever agree to-
“Let’s do it!” The winged boy exclaimed with enough passion to light the boat on fire, replying to Randuman’s offer with a pumped fist. 
“What?!”
“Though I won’t be needing Cadfael. He will just be a nuisance!”
“Hah, let’s see how you can use your measly sand magic in water.”
“A’ight. Finally, me time has come to show ya’ll my superior fish spearing moves!”
“Wait, wait. Calm down.” Elrhain said with a dumbfounded expression.
“Vesiphis, Howell! Are you out of your mind? Even uncle Rister, who is my dad’s age, had trouble. He even got injured! What the hell are you going to do without being in the Earthen realm?”
“Busyfish! Don’t go.” Ysbail grabbed onto Vesiphis’s kilt with a worry laden voice.
“My lord.” The winged boy looked moved. “I am honoured that you think about our safety. But worry not! Us nobles differ from normal folks. I am certain that this hunt will be but a cinch.”
“…. Uncle Rister is also a noble, dumbass.”
Randuman didn’t come to his younger son’s defence. “Prince Elrhain. While your praise of that weak brat pleases me- “
“No, that wasn’t a praise.”
“Ahem. Anyway, you must understand that we Haragols were only recently ennobled, just like the Siaglas. I, obviously, and even my two sons and most other cultivators in our village, were already in the Earthen realm before I was conferred with an Onthoakty. 
My house only started cultivating the [Claw-Crimson Cultivation Technique] barely ten cycles ago. In fact, my Totem has nothing to do with the [Claw-Crimson Cultivation Technique]. It is based on a different cultivation scripture altogether. A mediocre one collected by my forefathers ages ago. 
Unlike methods used by nobles, it couldn’t form Nascent Totem before the Earthen realm, significantly hampering our potential. 
Hence, though it pains me to admit, overall, our strength is yet weaker than the more established houses. The difference in the foundation, compared to a high noble Siorrakty like the Earthloch’s, is not something we new-bloods can overcome in just a single decade.”
The old man sighed, then looked affectionately at his granddaughter, who was drooling whilst watching Rister haul the dead Rockfin Crocofish onboard the boat. 
The young man looked quite peeved when no one helped him.
“Little Ruba will be different.” Randuman didn’t pay his son any heed and continued, “Unlike her elders, who could only start the [Claw-Crimson Cultivation Technique] after already augmenting their totemic souls with unsuitable ichors, she will get to experience the full might of it. From her generation, the name of Haragol will only go forward and not back! Hahaha!”
His own words seemed to have cheered Randuman up as the old man thumped his chest with pride.
Elrhain tilted his head to ponder. Tudor, too, had spoken of something similar before when expounding the various cultivation roots. 
How lesser nobles were leagues above servants and freemen, while high nobles were so far up it was despair-inducing. 
Earthloch’s main house could accomplish what others needed Earthen realm cultivation to do while only being mortal. And the lesser nobles, while having workable cultivation methods, had far fewer material resources.
Basically, lesser nobles only got the left-overs Earthloch handed out after having their own fill, while everyone else got the crumbs.
And even the left-over techniques were of such a high level that Haragol defined them as fate changing. Then, what of the methods the main house themselves use?
This was a fact Vesiphis was also well aware of. Hence Elrhain decided he really had no reason to object so much.
He turned towards the winged boy in question, who was having a hard time freeing himself from Ysbail’s clingy hug.
“You have protection talismans on you given by Uncle Cadwell, right?”
“I do! No gheist under mid-oceanic can wound me. So you can rest assured, my lord.”
“Weaklings do think alike. How effective can training be if you constantly rely on charms and talismans?” Cadfael threw a comment no one wanted to hear.
“Me lord. Don’tcha worries so much.” Howell chimed, perfectly ignoring the shadow boy’s denunciation. “Besides, it’ll be a waste if we don’t get to fish after coming all the way here.”
“That’s right.” Elrhain glared at Cadfael, “You’ll be fishing.”
Cadfael didn’t find it necessary to reply.
Elrhain grunted, then thought back on the dangerous magical combat Rister just had with the Rockfin Crocofish. His confusion came back to him.
「Annie. Tell me, how the hell is that fishing?」
The little girl giggled. 「Silly boy. To the tribal brutes here, fishing is simply hunting gheists in water. And the only way to hunt these monsters is by going in and getting their hands dirty. I have seen nothing like fishing poles and nets either. 」
Elrhain exhaled before saying, “Whatever. As long as you guys have fun, I guess.”
““Yay!”” Vesiphis and Howell cheered while Cadfael spat at the lake as if it owed him gheist cores. 
““No!”” Ysbail and Cati, who were at the moment quite scared after witnessing the ugly Rockfin Crocofish trying to bite Rister’s head off even after being thoroughly dead, held onto the two even tighter. The automatic nerve response of the corpse was honestly quite freaky.
It would take a few more minutes of cooing and a promise to find pretty shells and rocks from the lake bed that the two girls finally relented.
With green lights given from all directions, Romero just shrugged his shoulders helplessly and beaconed another of their boats fishing nearby.
“Come back safe!” Little Ysbail waved her tiny hands at the three brutes as they moved to the other boat. Much to little Ruba's discontent, Romero and Randuman went along with them. The two middle-aged cultivators on that boat moved to theirs, switching places.
“Worry not, young lady Ysbail! For even if the Earthloch scions have their limbs broken and ears bitten off, the magic spells of my son will guarantee that they will come back alive!” As the other boat rowed away ahead of them towards another section of the lake, Randuman waved back with a loud guffaw.
“….”
“Hmm? Is something the matter, young lady Ysbail? Your mouth moves, but your voice does not reach me!” Randuman’s voice was still booming from that distance.
““Waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!””
“Ah? Something must be wrong with my ears. I can’t hear you over the wind!”
“WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH WU WU!!! Howie, Busyfish, come back!”
Cati and Ysbail cried with tears the size of soybeans pearling out of their glossy eyes, and Elrhain had to stop himself from sniggering. 
「Audacious. Really audacious. 」
「Yup.」 Agwyn nodded, then ran off and held her two playmates in a tight hug. 
They stopped their wailing only when she told them that their boat would follow right behind to spectate the battle.









Chapter 54 – Matters of Manna

The brilliant skies and white clouds gradually took on the shade of a conspicuous, sepia-tinged blue as the Sohwl passed the crest of the day into its expected route to another afternoon.
Midday was over, but the blistering heat remained.
On top of a few islets, reefs, and jutting rock formations in one section of the Lake Sagathan waters, the three Earthloch scions could feel that sunlight with unobstructed intensity.
Yet none of them was much affected by it.
Vesiphis looked at the fading soft crimson glow on his hands. 
A tiny thread of the same light connected an ethereal part of his being to Randuman's, the old Haragol Onthoakt, who squatted on a ledge like rock overgrown with algae with a cheeky grin.
If Elrhain and Agwyn were here, they would have recognized it as similar to the magical tether Lilian had cast to tie them to their parents on the night of blessings.
This time, it was Romero who performed the magic. Though the effect was far weaker, it was strong enough that Randuman could jump in to intercede at the first hint of real danger.
A fact that displeased Cadfael quite a lot, as his opinion of 'training' was rather barbaric. But the gloomy boy could only accept the arrangements in the face of the old man's Oceanic might filled thick cranium.
After casting his magic, Romero had manoeuvred the boat away from the islets. 
He would circle the waters to keep a lookout. His father tasked him so that only a fair number of gheists with appropriate strength would get in this region, with any more being thwarted.
The high Earthen Mage wasn't omnipotent. He was no great lake spirit to control its occupants with majesty alone. 
What he had were tools used by many cultivators who hunted gheists on the lake. He also had more than simple attack spells in his repertoire as a mage. 
Alchemic powder and strange liquids, immobilizing ropes and pots full of concoctions that smelled worse than a mound of three-cycle dead fungus. These were all necessities for a cultivator who hunted deep in the lakes, all made from higher-ranked gheist blood or magical materials.
Vesiphis knew that these life-saving items were expensive, hence quite efficient. He had seen the same used in Reanakt Saphur's place too.
But even then, there was a chance of failure. The scent of a dhionne's blood, the shock waves in the water, and the dying roars of gheists were all catalyst enough to draw the attention of unwanted interlopers.
Though, to the three combatants, each with egos too big to fit in their child-sized noggins, that mattered little.
"Young master Howell has yet to form his Nascent Totem. Are you sure you want to go in first?" Randuman asked the shark-eyed boy.
"Ya. I'm still some ways off from lightin' all thousand nodes ya'see. But it's fine. Pa gave me this!" Howell replied, lifting his spear high as if to show off. 
The weapon had a white-bladed edge fashioned from a menacing gheist fang. Smooth, angular, and sleek, the dynamics of the blade were optimal for underwater harpooning. The gleam of manna Randuman's eyes could discern also proved that it was no ordinary trinket.
"That’s a talisman. An imitation of your branch’s [Kraken’s Fury Spear] Totem, if I am not wrong.” Randuman said, clawing his chin with an impressed exclamation.
“Right ya are! Pa told me to train and see if I could use this talisman's technique he taught me. Since it’d be practice for my Nascent Totem later.”
“I see. Then there’s no need to worry. I have full confidence you can be an excellent fisher with your father’s teachings!” The Onthoakt laughed, and Howell cackled along.
“Well then, I’ll be off! Don’t slack now, Busyfish, Black meanie!” With that said, the fishing enthusiast spun the talisman spear above his head a few times and then vaulted into the water like a sealion.
Vesiphis could only sigh at the ripples that lingered on the lake's surface. 
Unlike Howell and the Haragol family, Vesiphis could not naturally breathe underwater. He was also quite far from achieving origin breathing, the art of breathing life through manna alone.
Hence, his and Cadfael’s fight would be different. 
Howell assured them that he could bring the fight to them. Vesiphis simply hoped that this over-enthusiastic younger cousin of his wouldn’t take too long in keeping his promise.
***
“Ugh, there. I’m done. Pheeew!” Rister plopped on the floorboard of the boat. He had crammed the miniature truck of a gheist inside the storage area, the large cavity under the floorboard of this hollowed-out giant canoe. 
The young man had far over-used his manna and meridians today. His muscled twitched at even the slight hint of exertion, and the feeling wasn’t comfortable at all.
Elrhain, who eyed the man, wondered how the weight of the Rockfin Crocofish didn’t sink the boat. But not to mention capsizing, the boat didn’t seem to even dip in the slightest.
When he asked Rister, the young man weakly waved his hands as he replied, “I don’t really know. I think it might be the work of the magic arrays the mages inscribed on the hull. You can ask my brother later if you are curious, my lord.”
“It’s fine,” Elrhain said. He shifted his eyes back towards lake Sagathan. 
Ysbail, Cati, Agwyn, and Ruba grabbed onto the boat's edge while staring in the same direction. The four toddling girls were rather worked up.
“You can do it, Howwieee! Busyfiiiish!”
“B-Black meanie, don’t dieee!”
“Grandpa is the strongest!”
“Here’s a health to the company, and one too my lass~,”
Elrhain rolled his eyes, seeing Agwyn singing sea-shanties while rocking her head left and right. Maybe the tune was catchy, but the other girls also started humming along not soon after.
“By the way, U-uncle Rister,” Elrhain asked another question that had been on his mind for a while. “Onthoakt Haragol, ahh, your father.”
“I think the old man would be happier if you just called him grandpa Randuman.”
“Right, grandpa Randuman. He mentioned how we nobles cultivate differently from normal people. Could you elaborate on that?”
“….”
“W-What? Did I ask something weird?”
“Nah. Just. I’ve never seen a toddler speak so well. Man, Earthloch main house kids must surely eat something else since young, huh?”
“-Ha ha ha.” Elrhain awkwardly scratched his head. “Who knows? But my question….”
“Yeah, that. Let me think for a bit.” Rister put his palms on his temples as if to block the high heat of the Sohwl. Or maybe, calling up the information was just that gargantuan a task for a guy who would honestly love to catch a wink right now. 
“My lord knows about the basics of cultivation, right?” 
“Yes!” Elrhain raised his hand in affirmation, “Teacher Tudor taught me this.” 
He repeated the concepts he knew, such as the various cultivation roots and the stage names a dhionne must progress through until they arrived at the mystical Beyonder realm. 
“Teacher Tudor only taught up to this point. I really didn’t ask either since I thought I could just look it up in the archives… which I forgot to do.”
Rister slowly sat straight with his legs folded together from his sprawling position. “That’s about it. But man, you can read too? Gheistcores, main house toddlers really are crazy.”
“-Ha ha ha.”
“’ Kay. Let’s see if I can supplement Master Shaman Tudor’s teaching.” Rister looked proud of the fact for a second. “So, you know that in the Mortal Realm, you first saturate the nodes in your Totemic Soul, which are wholly random in aspect, with manna till they all ignite, yeah?”
Elrhain nodded.
“After that, you have to find a suitable ichor from either the spirits or some alternative sources. Then, you inject the ichor into your Ichoric Heart Chamber. 
This causes the nodes in your Totemic soul to magically realign their aspects depending on the aspects of the ichor itself. With that, your Ichoric Heart Chamber will gradually begin its transformation, and a Marrow Core will start forming in your physical body…. My lord?”
“Oh, please go on. I’m just jotting it down for future reference!” Elrhain urged the man to continue as he wrote furiously on a piece of crumbled gheist hide parchment he had taken out from Captain Anouk’s satchel.
“… Man, you can write too? Okay, don’t make that face. Where was I? Right, so the Marrow Core is physical, unlike the Ichoric Heart Chamber. It emerges as a blood-red gem inside your heart, which you can see with your inner vision.”
“Like Gheist Cores?”
“Similar. I don’t know if gheists need ichor to form their cores though. Can they even connect to the Astral plane?”
“…. Teacher Tudor said that everything in the Astral plane, like the Totemic Soul and the Ichoric Heart Chamber, has a projection into the physical plane. But that only beings who can think can feel the Astral plane.”
“Ah! Right, I forgot about that part.” Rister concurred, snapping his fingers. “According to what’s written in our house’s cultivation scripture, the Marrow Core is precisely the special whatsit you need the connect the Astral plane with the physical plane. 
Since it’s the projection of the Ichoric Heart Chamber, you can say they are like two ends of a tunnel. One opens in the Astral Plane, and the other in your body in the real world.
Before forming a Marrow core, the apertures and meridians, which are the projection of the nodes and channels of the Totemic Soul onto your body, are also pretty much useless. 
Mortal dhionne only ever uses manna for brute force. They can’t flow manna through meridians or release them outside through apertures as easily Cultivators can. These Meridians spread throughout your whole body are all connected to a particular object.”
“The Marrow Core?”
“Smart little main house lordling. You are correct.” Rister praised.
“What does that have to do with creating a Spirit, er, Nascent Totem?”
“I’m getting to that. So, after you realign the aspects in your Totemic soul, you can start using cultivation techniques. Since now you are finally in the Earthen realm!”
“Oh, so that’s the breakthrough?”
“Yeah. And it was damn hard.” Rister nodded as he looked back in memory lane, wincing at some phantom pain long forgotten. 
“Usually, the aspects in the Totemic soul before realignment vary so much person to person that using the same cultivation technique to produce the exact result for any two dhionne is nigh impossible. But that ain’t a problem after the process. If they consume the same ichor, that is. 
Cultivation techniques each have their unique ways of refining manna. What you do is, you use that refined manna to connect the various nodes and channels in your Totemic Soul to construct unique structures called Frames.”










Chapter 55 – The Divide of Totems

Elrhain bit his lips with a face full of concentration as he wrote everything down on the page of parchment.
‘Frames, Realignment… Ah! I wonder what happened to all the ichor Annie accepted that night? Can someone use more than one ichor?’ Just as his mind was about to wander, Elrhain pinched his little finger and brought his awareness back to Rister’s words.
“Frames are weird things.” Rister said, “they say that after creating a frame, a dhionne’s physical body becomes slightly closer to the Astral plane than when he was a Mortal realmer. 
The end goal of cultivation is, after all, the complete uniting of your Astral plane self with your physical self. Each step you progress in cultivation, you become closer to that goal and also closer to the natural laws of the world.”
“Ohhh!” ‘A new concept get!’
Rister slapped his chest proudly as if the little princeling’s awe was a momentous achievement… this habit must run in the family.
“After you construct the first frame, something inherently changes in the Totemic Soul. As proof, you can now feel the Astral Boundary and the flames that make it up. You don’t have to raise your hand, my lord. I ain’t no master shaman.”
“Um, can you only see that Astral Boundary thing after creating a frame?”
“That’s what’s written in the [Claw-Crimson Cultivation Technique].”
“I see…” Elrhain paused his pen, his tiny face squinting in deep contemplation.
Rister thought that the princeling’s expression was rather cute. “The Astral Boundary is what separates this plane from the immaterial astral one. Since a dhionne can only construct a frame after reaching the Earthen Realm, only after that can he harvest the flames of the Astral Boundary as per the instructions written in his cultivation scripture.”
Rister stopped. Before he had noticed, the princess had also joined in, nestling herself beside Elrhain. 
The little girl smiled sweetly. Rister returned an appreciative nod.
“This flame is called the Totem Flame. And the first flame you harvest is the Seed Flame.
This Seed Flame is what a dhionne uses to forge his Nascent Totem. He uses the Marrow Core to transfer it into the real world from the other side and merges the flame with a suitable vessel. It can be like my spear here, creating the Nascent Totem [Claw-Crimson Spear]. Or like my old man, who merged his seed flames into his claws following a different cultivation technique. 
I heard you can even put it in the wind, a real fire, or the words that you whisper. There are many strange cultivation techniques out there, after all.”
“Like Cadfael’s Shadows? Does sand work?”
“By Cadfael, you mean the supreme talent who is the Watch Commander’s son?”
“He’s the guy who gave you fighting advice earlier…. Sorry.”
“Oh, that little fella. Haha, don’t apologize my lord. He was right after all. And yeah, I think those wiggling shadows were a Nascent Totem if I’ve ever seen one. Sand should work too.”
“Ellie, do you have another pen? I forgot to bring mine.”
“Here’s my spare. Hey! Don’t poke me; I am not giving you this one!”
Rister had an urge to laugh seeing the two toddlers acting so shaman-like despite their adorable antics.
“Wait,” Elrhain suddenly stopped, “You need to be in the Earthen realm for a Marrow core, and the same to create a frame? So, wait… huh?”
“Looks like you’ve noticed. Yes, to feel the Astral Boundary and harvest the Seed Flame, you need to have at least one stable frame. And to bring that Seed flame outside, you need to have a Marrow Core.”
“Then why do Vesiphis and Cadfael have Nascent Totems?”
Rister grinned. “Well, my lord. Remember when I told you, frames are weird things?”
Elrhain rolled his eyes. “Duh! And that you can only create frames after entering the Earthen realm.”
“You can only ‘create’ them.”
“What do you mean?” Elrhain stared wide-eyed.
Rister patted his knees as he spoke. “The channels and nodes altogether in the Totemic soul create a spiderweb-like structure known as the Lattice. You know this, right?”
Elrhain and Agwyn both nodded.
“The thing is… even in their mother’s womb, a dhionne is already born with a few, innate, already formed frames in their lattice.”
“Then shouldn’t normal mortals also be able to cast spells and manna techniques?”
Rister shook his head. “The innate frames are fully formed but aren’t initiated. A Mortal realmer first has to locate them in their Lattice, which is exceedingly hard for people with such low manna. 
Uninitiated innate frames are elusive things. After location, to use them, a dhionne also has to ignite the nodes in that frame. After which, they must even clear the channels too, so that they are strong enough to not tear under frame-augmented manna. And for that,” Rister stopped.
“…. You need extraordinary cultivation techniques.” Elrhain continued with an analytical expression.
“Techniques that only noble houses have?” Agwyn asked as understanding dawned upon her.
“It seems the princess is no less smart than his highness.” Rister was not cheap with his compliments, which pleased her little highness very much.
“Hihi, Annie is actually smarter!” Agwyn puffed out her chest, and Rister laughed along.
“High-level cultivation techniques also describe how to bring the Seed flame outside without a Marrow core.
For normal dhionne, like we were before we became nobles, we could only forge a Nascent Totem after already in the Earthen Realm. At that point, there is one important event we would have already completed.
After getting ennobled, we certainly changed our cultivation technique to the better one, the [Claw-Crimson Cultivation Technique]. I, along with the other Haragol Earthen cultivators, even re-forged our Nascent Totem after destroying our previous ones. But our potential will nevertheless be less than someone who forged their Nascent Totem before reaching Earthen.” Rister said with a wistful sigh, but his sad look was fleeting, hiding itself deeply before the two kids could fully register it.
“Is it because of the ichor?” Elrhain speculated. “Since it realigns the aspects in our Totemic souls, can it also improve the Nascent Totem?”
“It can. Every cultivation technique created on Uorys Diosca is forever based on the aspects of the ichor the creator himself consumed. The Nascent Totem goes through an extraordinary kind of metamorphosis when a mortal absorbs an ichor. The very act of crossing the realm of the 1st circle, which is the Mortal realm, into the 2nd circle, the early Earthen realm, is a qualitative change in body, soul, and manna. This is the one metamorphosis most dhionne miss.
A Nascent Totem forged without missing this first metamorphosis will be far easier to complete throughout the Oceanic realms than a general one. Actually, in the Oceanic Realm, it is called the Spirit Totem. Since throughout the Earthen realm, a cultivator constantly blood quenches the Nascent Totem with the Totem flames he harvests.
This, when breaking into the 5th circle, the early Oceanic Realm, from the 4th circle, the high Earthen realm, induces a second metamorphosis. It’s the reason why one is ‘Nascent,’ and the other isn’t. I asked my old man once, but he didn’t really say much. Only that I will know when the time comes.”
Elrhain lifted the tip of the ink pen from the parchment after Rister stopped speaking. He lamented with a difficult tone, “Cultivation is so convoluted!”
Rister burst out laughing. This side of him was undoubtedly similar to Randuman.
“Damn as the undergods’ curses it is. Though since you both cured the swampling’s curse, maybe you could ‘cure’ this issue too for simpler folks like us.” Rister cracked his neck after exhaling deeply. His expression playful as if he didn’t take his own words seriously. He then brought his palm in front of his face and raised his fingers one by one.
“For regular folks, at the end of the Mortal Realm, they completely ignite all the nodes in their Totemic Soul. They consume an ichor after finding one themselves in the dangerous wild or receiving it from their master house in exchange for a substantial contribution. Then they begin forming a Marrow core. 
Throughout the Earthen realm, they construct frames in the Totemic soul corresponding to whatever cultivation technique they can get their hands on. They forge a Nascent Totem with the Seed flame and quench it with more and more Totem flames as the number of frames increases. At the end of the Earthen Realm, their Marrow Core completes. 
We can drop the ‘Nascent’ part of the Nascent Totem with the ascension to Oceanic. From what I heard from my father, the Oceanic Realm is all about creating even more frames. At high or late Oceanic, at the peak of the 7th circle, using that ocean’s worth of frame-augmented manna and harvested Totem flames, a dhionne metamorphose their Spirit Totem once again.
But for nobles, we, well, not me since I was too late. But for Ruba and you. You can forge a Nascent Totem even in the Mortal Realm. To nobles, the metamorphosis during the Oceanic to Sky ascension will be the third time, and not second, unlike the vast majority of commoners.
That’s why the three young lordlings out there can fight with early Earthen realm gheists toe to toe. I don’t think they are as strong as me right now. But when they, and you kids too, reach where I stand today. You will be far stronger.”
“Here!” Agwyn raised her hand eagerly. “T-Then what about the Sky realm? Beyonders?”
Rister shrugged, “Beats me. Too far away for me to care right now-“
“Hooowwieee! Don’t jump!” Ysbail’s cry suddenly jolted the two mini and one young adult out of their nerd talks.
Elrhain stood up and toddled to the boat’s edge with Agwyn. His mind prickled with a dull pain as his eyes zoomed in and focused, just in time to see Howell dive down into the lake full of confidence. 
Meanwhile, sparkling sand and dark shadows rose around the other two as they warmed up their Nascent Totems.
The hunt for what the wild denizens of the disc called ‘fish’ was about to begin!






Chapter 56 – Creed of One

Vesiphis took out a small clay vial from his pocket and flowed his greyish-yellow manna into it. A dim glow perfused the object, and soon, sparkling particles of sand trickled out.
A talisman, but not a spatial one.
It did not carry but conjure. 
A system of magic the Naeman Witches were adept in, a gift from his father and mother.
“[Prymeodon Sand-sea].”
He called out the name of his Nascent Totem. From the corner of his eyes, he saw Cadfael do the same, as a black sheen covered the white bone blade in the boy’s grip.
Vesiphis’s eyebrows twitched, facing away before his counterpart noticed his gaze.
As the eldest cousin of the cohort, Vesiphis had dutifully asked Cadfael if he wanted a part in his and Howell’s plan.
Unsurprisingly, a muttered snort calling them ‘Wimps’ was all he got for a reply.
‘Well, that’s fine too. We have our own creeds. His is supremacy, while mine….’ The winged boy fixed his attention towards lake Sagathan, steadying his mind for flawless execution of the hunt.
The edges of the yellow cloud surrounding him touched the water, the conjured particles serving as an extension of his senses. While they were nothing compared to Howell, Elrhain, or Cadough’s detection capabilities, he would at least notice a gheist swarm bolting towards the rock formation.
Vesiphis went over what he knew about their target.
The Sawmouth Snapper. 
About Vesiphis’s size lengthwise, these fish were predators of the lake that hunted in swarms of many.
They were quick in the water, equipped with well-armed flesh and bone appendages. 
Their jagged blade-like upper jaw could break through stones and metals alike, living or not. The saw edges were motionless, but the discharge of sharp manna surrounding it wasn’t.
These gheists’ preferred hunting method was to clutch onto prey with their claw-like lower jaw and split it open with their bladed saw.
But their menace wasn’t restricted only underwater.
The Sawmouth Snapper’s high velocity in the currents could cannonball them out into the air borrowing their explosive momentum. 
They were known to plough straight into the insides of unsuspecting land beasts drinking in the shores of various lakes. After which, the rest of the swarm would grab onto the dead or disabled prey’s other body parts and drag it and their comrade back into the water.
A creature no doubt conjured by a cruel undergod’s nightmares; spawned by a manna-riogh far into the lake depths.
But this was Fanas Diosca, where even these Sawmouth Snappers were at the bottom of the food chain.
They were but dumb beasts that could merely act on instincts.
A low-level animal may not detect the fast quakes in the water left in a Sawmouth Snapper’s wake.
“[Sand-sea Bulwark]!”
But to Vesiphis, it could not be more obvious!
Baam!
The saw-like jaw of the gheist drilled into the barrier of sand with a small shock wave as a blue shadow leapt up with a blur. 
Vesiphis held strong with confidence. He opened his left wing and flapped, swerving his body in the opposite direction, evading the second Sawmouth Snapper as it ambushed from behind.
‘Only two? No!’
Surrounding the algae-covered islets, more dark shapes moved erratically. The bloodlust was palpable.
‘… four, five, ten… twenty-two!’
The moment he finished counting, one shadow dove upward as the water above it swelled before bursting.
It was Howell!
With an excited shriek, the shark-eyed boy sailed over Vesiphis’s head while holding the end of his spear in a vice grip. The momentum of the now thrice-extended manna-filled talisman was no weaker than the gheists themselves.
Before Howell plunged back into the water on the other side, he splashed a vial of blood-red liquid directly onto Vesiphis’s [Sand-sea Bulwark].
‘So, twenty-one of them.’
Vesiphis re-adjusted the shape of his defences. The first part of their plan was a success.
The red liquid sizzled like fire as it came into contact with the manna on the Bulwark, releasing a pungent red smoke. 
As if a mark of death had been planted on Vesiphis’s back, more than half of the monster fish let out a screech of rage in his direction.
The sound wave broke into the atmosphere, and four Sawmouth Snappers vaulted out with bloodshot eyes.
Vesiphis grinned, slanting the sides of the Bulwark so that it would partially divert the impact.
The gheists slid off without much resistance, but the effect of the blood smoke remained. They circled back with renewed ferocity.
‘Not bad, considering Howell must’ve used some of the lure’s magic when baiting these gheists.’
“Hiya!” Speaking of the boy, Howell jumped out of the water again, this time from the right of the islet. 
The retracted spear in his hand was wedged between the snapping jaws of one of the gheists, bending slightly as the gheist tried to chomp down.
The Sawmouth Snapper looked perplexed, while Howell’s grin sang with exhilaration. Then they plopped back into Sagathan.
A second later, a pained roar, different from the bloodthirsty one before, wailed out, making Vesiphis wonder exactly what Howell did down there. 
He could not see as the water there was now a murky brown, clouded with gheist blood.
The rest of the swarm jolted away at their comrade’s death cry, their instincts seemingly wary of the pesky two-legged spike-thing creeping in that brown fog.
Despite the first kill, the overall frequency of their attacks did not lessen.
From the side, Vesiphis could sense the depths of Cadfael’s manna and the whooshing sound of his shadowy tendrils cleaving apart the lake water.
A flash of darkness, and Cadfael separated the upper jaw of one incoming gheists from its mouth. He followed up with a straight thrust after binding the creature with his shadows, ensuring that the second kill of the hunt would not escape.
Unlike Vesiphis, Cadfael would instead attack than be so passive.
But that was fine.
Because Vesiphis still had enough leeway to check up on Cadfael, despite being pelted by the crazed charge of the gheists every few seconds.
“Guaaaaaaaa!”
The Sawmouth Snappers fumed more, their attacks becoming more unrestrained. They were no longer the orderly squadron of peltasts from before, but a haphazard mix of violent impulses.
Vesiphis knew they were not in such a frenzy because they had lost two members. 
No, gheists didn’t do that.
The blood and the lure trapped the ravenous souls of these creatures inside the periphery of the islets.
Some of the stronger ones tried to escape, perhaps noticing the effect of Romero’s magic lure. But Howell was ever the nuisance.
And the mindless few who cared not for survival were plucked straight from water by shadows blacker than the depths, laden with blades sharper than swords.
Finally, a few more minutes of indiscriminate assault later, a notably larger Sawmouth Snapper with a golden stripe down its back raised half its maw above the water. 
It screeched, the hue of manna surrounding its saw-like jaw taking a darker shade.
The other gheists followed its call. The leader's presence brought back a semblance of discipline in their midst as the gheists swam into a triangular-shaped formation. 
The multitude of dark shapes circled the waters once, twice, and a few more times under the leadership of the alpha, as if in the tail of an elusive phantom. 
Sometimes jittering, sometimes breaking apart, sometimes encircling. The gheists displayed a show of unity far superior than their intellect would suggest.
If it was Vesiphis down there right now, he would have already become fish food.
Randuman whistled, impressed. “Not bad. Not bad at all, young scion of Earthloch.”
Vesiphis could also feel a deep sense of pride rising in his chest at Howell’s game of deathly tag.
Soon, the Sawmouth Snappers proved once again that they were ruled by their bestial predispositions. 
They ran out of patience after not being able to corner the lone prey, their formation long in disarray. The alpha broke out of the lake surface and roared again wrathfully.
Maybe it judged Cadfael to be greater danger than him, its frustrated eyes snapped straight towards Vesiphis. It dived with a guttural sound. The remaining swarm of fourteen followed, albeit more agitated.
The lure’s effect was weakening, but the gheists’ bloodlust did not allow them to retreat, neither did the alpha.
‘It’s time!’
The winged boy inhaled deeply, then poured in as much manna as he could into his Bulwark. 
He knew a charge far destructive than before was coming; he knew how these gheists hunted. He was not nervous at all. There was a subtle grin on his lips.
As expected, the gheists first swam away from the islet to raise their momentum. 
At first, the dark shadows on the lake's surface disappeared with the depths. But not even a few breaths later, the shadows returned.
They enlarged faster than his eyes could follow and finally burst out of the water with a deluge of manna and malice.
Crash!
The biggest impact yet. 
Vesiphis planted his feet into the slippery rock surface, using his sand-covered sandals to create enough fiction that he didn’t slip off.
The rock cracked as he felt his limbs strain under the force.
“GAAAAAAAAAH!”
The leader, right at the forefront of the swarm with half its saw sticking into Vesiphis’s Bulwark, roared like a sword screeching against a stone. 
Seven gheists bashed the bulwark head-on, while seven others bounced off with distressed grunts.
The ones that remained continued barreling in. 
They Clawed, crunched, sawed, and slashed at the Bulwark until the despicable thing would break. Just like the rock grottoes and stone reefs these Sawmouth Snappers would smash apart every day for the prey hidden under.
However,
“Guhhh?!”
Vesiphis flared his nostrils as his eyes turned a fuzzy yellow. He wrapped his body with his wings and concentrated the augmented manna in one of the innate frames in his totemic soul.
He softened the sand, then pulled.
“[Prymeodon Quagmire]!”
And as the momentum of the charge of the seven Sawmouth Snappers finally ran out, their weight no longer pushing the Bulwark down, the magic spell took place. 
Usually, the gheists would have fallen off into the water after their failed assault. The sand was too loose to obstruct their retreat.
“Guuh!!!”
But they had clawed at the sand to break the wall. And now the sand clawed back. The mushy clumps of brown and yellow squeezed their jaws from all directions! 
The gheists were stuck there like a knife thrown into a tree, wiggling their monstrous bodies but unable to get free.
Large swathes of manna zapped around their saw-like jaws, driving the sand everywhere. But more clomped in, holding it tight like the sap of a Rubra tree.
Red veins webbed Vesiphis’s eyes. His muscles and meridians strained under the pressure of manna. 
Though the momentum was no longer there, the gheists themselves weighted like boulders.
The boy could not hold the Bulwark steady for much longer. 
But, it was enough.
“Howell! Now!”
“Hiyaaaaaaaaa!!”
One second of silence before the wind screamed in pain. 
From the left, a line of manna exploded out with a blinding white tail-light. 
The talisman of [Kraken’s Fury]!
Its edge gleamed like a crystal sun, penetrating straight into the side of the rightmost gheist’s head and nailing out from the opposite direction, skewering every beast in between, including the alpha.
““GUAAAAAAAAAAA!””
Howell’s feet firmly kicked the rightmost gheist’s body as if to break the charge, stopping the spear from flying off. His left hand gripped the spear’s shaft while his right pumped in the air with triumph!
“Ha Hahaha! See that? That’s me pa’s [Kraken Gore]!” The shark-eyed boy laughed with glee, boasting the name of the technique his father had taught him. He looked towards the spectating boats and waved, hoping his cousins could witness his time of glory.
Vesiphis grinned too, his gaze shifting towards Cadfael, who was finishing off the remaining seven gheists single-handedly with pure force.
Vesiphis’s eyes narrowed.
This was his creed. 
He need not be the strongest; he will remain as passive as he wanted, as unmoving as the situation dictated.
Because Vesiphis was a manager. He was a controller. 
He managed his allies; he controlled his enemies.











Chapter 57 - Creed of the Strong

「The strong do not find solace in the weak.」A puerile voice echoed, laden with confidence as if it had declared an absolute truth of the world.
Cadfael hung the bone sword on his back as the many limbs of his Nascent Totem, the [Frostnight Depthraer], also retracted.
Broken gheist parts and severed fish heads lay floating around the water. 
The last seven Sawmouth Snappers, eliminated without delay. But the boy didn’t feel any glory for his feat.
Mere low Earthen animals, a massacre was to be expected. Would a dragon feel proud stomping on insects? Only for the weak was this achievement momentous.
Cadfael rubbed the dark-blue bone ring on his right thumb with his index as he quietly observed Vesiphis and Howell celebrate.
「When the angels appear to rain down death and despair, the weak can only die or hide. Because the weak are not the strong. They will perish without defiance or hide under the banner of those who fight back. Because only in the strong do they, too, find solace. 」
Cadfael turned his complacent gaze towards the fishing boat lazily floating their way. 
Randuman had already collected the ‘hunted’ gheists. The carcasses were now piled into a heap to the side.
From the opposite direction of the islet, the eldest Haragol son’s boat approached.
「The strong need not do anything else but be strong. They must cultivate; they must be bold and unyielding. If they are strong, then authority will come, riches will come. Love or lust, too, will come. All desires and ambitions under the light of the many Sohwls will fulfil themselves with no extra thought or effort. All dissidents and naysayers will shut their foolish mouths in the face of undeniable power. 」
It reminded Cadfael of his delicate, beautiful mother. 
The exiled Horuxi princess who surrendered to the Yuriels only to be seized like prey. The escaped prisoner who fell in love with an Earthloch discwalker out for mischief. The pale vase flower who could not even embrace her son without judgement from others.
The valorous woman had long left amid one Sunsleep winter night for her decadent homeland, with a bloodstained promise to come back for him after vanquishing all that stood in her way. 
The boy’s thoughts then veered to the tiny Earthloch princess. Like the great ascended Beyonders who had pierced through the sky, she alone bore the burden of a hundred thousand spirit’s selfish blessing. 
But she did so with a smile, without weakness. 
Because she was strong, and because the world belonged to her. And because she knew it.
That night, under the advent of the collapse of manna, Cadfael witnessed the star-kissed, undaunted figure of the little girl on the Scrying Curtain in the sky. In his mind of minds, her tiny figure had overlapped with the feeble Horuxi princess’s. 
One who innocently knew that the world revolved around her follies, and one who strived to be strong no matter the will of the gods, no matter good or evil.
「The young and the innocent do not know the distinction between the weak and the strong. But this is Fanas Diosca, where the weak are but food. Do not fret, my friend, for natural selection will cast away the weaklings far back into history to be forgotten. If the prince consort who unnerves you so much remains as he is now, that will be his fate. Likewise, for the princess, if she keeps on indulging in her weakness for the boy you call a parasite. 
Though, I doubt that will ever happen. The night of the blessing was undoubtedly a performance worthy of this Sovereign’s favour. Ah, how I wish time would pass faster so I can witness the moment the Earthloch heiress sheds her naivety. When she truly grows up. How I wish to see when she awakes to the truth of this world and usurps the whole Uorys Diosca in her hands! What a fine concubine she will be! 」
Cadfael snorted in equal measures of disdain and pity for the delusional, disembodied voice.
Him? Fretting about Elrhain? As if!
It was okay if this consort, the Siaglas heir valued highly by all the main house’s upper echelons, at least tried to better himself. But in his time observing him, Cadfael had never seen even farmhand children be so voracious and lazy. Like the tales sung by the storytellers of weak servants suddenly discovering great wealth and sinking into self-indulgence.
Cadfael scratched the bone ring on his thumb with irritation. He would rather not be ridiculed like this!
「Don’t be like that. After all, it is the truth that the princess dislikes you. Her innocent yet intimate whims with the consort prickle your mind oftener than you would dare admit, heh.」 The voice paused, and the deep blue colour of the bone ring lightened. 
That was the limit for today. 
「It is also the truth that you will never be as strong as me. So my desires will naturally prevail over yours. Do not think too badly of me, for that is the way of the world. If you do not wish me to take what you deem to be yours, cultivate harder. I will see you soon, my first friend of the tenth epoch. 」
With one last infallible laughter, the voice disappeared.
From this distance, Cadfael could now hear the kids clamouring on the boat. The princess was hanging from the consort’s neck while the latter struggled to escape her silly wrath.
His eyebrows twitched, just slightly. 
Cadfael wasn’t really upset by what the voice had declared. Not about its desires, nor about the princess’s actions.
It was right, after all. 
If Cadfael did not prove himself worthy, the goddess of fortune would, of course, favour others. Right now, to a young girl of only three, that worth was in fun and laughter, not in the intricacies of the world or the truth of absolute might.
Time, cascading down unending, was the cruel device every dhionne must confront. Time changed everything.
That’s why,
‘Mother, I will not wait.’ The boy made that vow once more, just like he did the day before, and the day before that.
Cadfael’s definition of ‘strong’ was not wholly the same as the voice’s. But then again, he really didn’t understand the voice’s agenda either.
Just that it had a mission. And Cadfael was now part of that mission.
It offered him a path to power far vaster than the techniques taught in Earthloch. But unlike the voice, Cadfael cared less for the mission and more for his own goals. And that goal was not restricted to just cultivation.
Cadfael wanted everything. 
And he would not passively wait for them to become true.
He will carve a bloody path if necessary to take what was his. He will end the collapse with his sword and totem and destroy the Yuriels and all who smeared his mother’s honour with his fury. He will cleave apart the void to Horux Diosca and stand before his feeble mother and tell her she need not worry for him anymore. She need not prove anything to anyone. She need not feel repentant for birthing a weak son with one blind eye and a splintered totemic soul. 
After all, he would be the strongest. 
And the strong do not wait.
***
「I don’t know how I feel about kids fighting.」 Agwyn muttered.
She sat with Elrhain on a seat of leaves on the bank of Sagathan. After the gheist hunt, or ‘fishing session’ as Randuman called it, the meat bun cohort returned to Haragol village with much fanfare.
Bromwyn ran up to the boat, picked her up the moment they came ashore, and then started inquiring about her day with a lisping tone.
Unfortunately for the big guy, Agwyn had somehow already made wonderful friends with Ruba. Something to do with being cuter than Ysbail and whatnot.
So the princess had no time for the barbarian and promptly ran off with the Haragol heiress to court the fish-gremlins. Of course, she dragged Elrhain along.
That was an hour ago. Bromwyn had looked brokenhearted, but the big guy had some grown-up things to talk about with Randuman. So, he and the Onthoakt, along with Romero, entered Randuman’s dwelling and were busy discussing clan matters.
Agwyn had had her fill trying to figure out the inner cuteness of the hideous fish gremlins. She gave up and came back to play with everybody else, much to Ruba’s discontent.
All around, the village machine was in full gear, preparing for the feast. The villagers set up leaf seats and grilling pits to roast all types of seafood imaginable.
They lined more clay pots up; within them were boiling soups and simmering stews.
There were wicker baskets full of fresh and dried fruit and roots, enormous eggs fried on edible gheist fat on sizzling stone slabs, and the turbulent clash of all the whiffs and smells warring it out in the sunny lake air. 
The aromas devoid of any spices were just as, if not more, intense.
Elrhain gulped, his eyes darting from one glistening cartoon drumstick to another as he replied. 「We will have to get used to it either way. Though I admit… that slash on Howell’s back looked awful. Sigh. Social services would be helpless in such a primitive place. 」
Agwyn nodded, gripping Elrhain’s hand tight. 
「Relax. You know me. I don’t consider fighting monsters as my calling, like, at all.」 Elrhain joked.
「Me neither. But I bet you’re just scared of the attention rather than the monsters. You really need to get over that phobia of social intimacy. 」
「How rude! I crave attention, alright? Moderate attention that is, not the scary kind.」
「Sure you do~」 Agwyn giggled.
She glanced towards Vesiphis and Howell, who were chronicling their epoch-shattering fight to the star-eyed village children. Ysbail stared with committed passion at the pretty shell Howell had gifted her, while Cati tried to attract Cadfael’s attention by whining as aggravatingly as she could without actually stepping within ten feet of the boy.
“…. And then, I’s spear ripped right through their foul flesh! The leader of them nasty gheists roared so loud my ear rang with pain! But I knew that today’s feast depended on me fishing skills! So I advanced, and at last, with Busyfish’s minor help, we’ve caught them wretched Sawmouth Snappers whole!” Howell proudly asserted.
““Wow!””
“If by minor help, you mean heroically thwarting off the ultimate charge of the gheist swarm single-handedly while you hid away underwater like a scared fishling, then yes, I helped.”
「That’s not spearfishing, or fishing at all. They just had close-quarters combat with psychopathic lake dinosaurs! 」, Elrhain grumbled. Something about these dhionne wild folks desecrating the sacred act of fishing really ticked him off. He could not face his fishing buddies back on Earth even in his dreams if he didn’t at least whine about these rude and barbaric conducts.
「…. Do you want to teach them? 」 Agwyn said, beaming straight into his eyes.
「 Wouldn’t that be too risky?」 Elrhain asked, 「You still wanted to… you know… 」
「It’s okay. I’ve thought about it a lot these days. A-And you were right. I was a tad bit paranoid. 」
Elrhain raised an eyebrow.
「Ehehe. So, I want to take this chance to kill two birds with one stone. And besides, 」 Agwyn stood up and dusted the sand off her skirt. She pointed at Ruba, then at all the other children who were immersed in the story. 
「Don’t you think they are pitiful? Don’t you want to break their misbelief that one must be a cultivator to enjoy the pleasures of fishing?」
Agwyn grinned, and Elrhain knew she had him.





Chapter 58 - Start of a Revolution 

“So nice. I wish I could grow up faster.” Ruba pouted, peering down at her bitsy little arms and cute, stumpy legs.
“Dontcha worry! Two years’ll go by a zippy, and you’ll be the same age as me.” Howell chirped. “By then, we’ll all be fierce hunters, hahaha!”
The shark-eyed boy bounced up. “Whether it’s the lakes, the manna-rioghs or the forests, I’m gonna join a hunting team at the Shire with Siani after I get me Nascent Totem made.”
Vesiphis rolled his eyes, then thwacked Howell’s head hard. “Pipe down, fish-head. Ignite all your nodes before talking so big. Maybe you could do it sooner if you weren’t always playing with ropes and spears during cultivation.”
“Hehehe.”
Cati wasn’t interested in hunting or fighting. But the three-eyed toddler admitted that Cadfael and Vesiphis were really cool when they beat up the scary-looking fishies. 
“Mommy said my Totem is about di-di-digisigrating-”
“-Disintegrating?” Ysbail chimed.
“Yes! That. When I grow up, I can stare at gheists really meanly, and they will die. Can I join Howwie then?”
“Me too! Ysbail will go too!”
“Sure ya can. I thought it was a shame that us cousins couldn’t get’ta blast more fish today. Pa always told me of the good old days when they were young ’uns. I heard one time, our pas and mas went to a Naeman Conclave and killed an evil Faediaval that ate babies!”
“Oh! So cool!”
“We’s gotta do something better, I tell ya. I bet if we were all to fight together today, not just me, Busyfish and Black meanie, we could’ve killed hundreds of fish. We are Earthloch scions, after all! Of course, bitsy Ruba can join us too if ya wanna.” Howell cackled, facing the sky, his fists placed at his sides.
“I also know that Eudav’s father lost his arm trying to shove a draught down that Faediaval’s maw.” Vesiphis dutifully poured cold water. “And Ysbail still hasn’t learnt to cultivate. Cati and Ruba are barely initiates. Lord Elrhain and Lady Agwyn are the same, and neither of them can swim.”
“I can too!” Ruba protested. “I can eat while swimming! And sleep!”
“My point is, if over-confidence does not get you killed, it will most certainly your companions.” Vesiphis tugged Howell’s ears. “Quit planting bad ideas in their heads. Didn’t you say you were responsible now? That’s why your father gave you the Totemic talisman in the first place!”
“Eyy! Ey, that hurts. ‘Kay, I was joking. I know we can’t fish gheists now! I was saying ‘bout our future. My ear is turning purple like Gwynnie’s angry face, ah!”
“Hey!” Agwyn objected to the defamation, then pulled Howell’s other ear.
“Oh! Hi, Gwynnie, Rhainy.” Ysbail scuttled up to them. There was a slight bump on her forehead, presumably from bashing her head with the flying Ruba a few hours ago. But Ysbail looked unconcerned.
Elrhain greeted her back, then spent a few good seconds to squish and stretch her gooey cheeks. He gestured towards Vesiphis and Howell; the shark-teeth boy was now panting on the ground after finally being released. 
“That might not be true.”
“What isn’t?” Howell asked.
“That we can’t fish gheists as we are.”
“Hahaha.” Vesiphis suddenly chuckled. “My lord, what precise use of humour. As a whimsical person myself, I, too, am in awe of your sublime sarcasm.”
“It… wasn’t a joke?” Elrhain was stunned. He looked at Agwyn, but the girl shook her head.
“…. Surely it was. No, what? My lord! You cannot be so unreasonable. Someone so fat as you will sink like a rock if you try to swim, let alone fish the gheists!”
“Rude! One day with Randuman, and he’s already an unhealthy influence. And besides, the fishing I am speaking of, and the fishing you know, are completely different. It’s safe, even for idiots like Ysbail.”
“Grandfather isn’t an unhealthy influence!”
“Rhainy is mean to me again.” 
“T-that’s beside the point.” Elrhain coughed, appalled at his own involuntary comment about Ysbail. That little girl always attracted bullying from all directions, like a nerd in a vocational school.
The mood spiralled out of control in less than three seconds. This was one thing Elrhain didn’t enjoy about talking to kids. Everyone had the attention span of a drunk frog, including himself.
“Okay. Everyone, gather around.” Elrhain pushed past the playing children, including the village twerps, and signalled them to round up in a circle.
“Vesiphis. Listen up, and be illuminated. Because I am about to reveal to you one truth of the world that will transform your entire life.” He clapped his hands in front of his mouth, trying to make himself look more professional. 
“I am smarter than you.”
His audience booed. 
“Because Annie and I read a lot in the archives.”
“Oh, man. You guys can rea-” Ruba was about to exclaim in shock, but Elrhain violently shush ’ed her with a, “Yes! Your uncle already did all that.” 
Elrhain held up Agwyn’s hand above their heads, drawing the spotlight onto her.
“You know how Annie found the cure to the Swampling’s Curse in a forgotten scroll no one ever read, right?”
The chattering ceased. Vesiphis, obviously, even Cati and Ysbail paused their banter and at last gave Elrhain their undivided attention. They realized that the young prince was serious.
Ruba looked at the odd atmosphere with her adorable face scrunched up. She patted her temples hard for a moment, recalling what her grandfather had taught her. Always pay heed to the wisdom of the Earthlochs. 
Her eyes lit up, and she told the children of her village to listen attentively too. She might be a toddler, but she was the noble toddler of the Haragol house. 
“C-Can we really hunt fish, even though we are little?” One of the Haragol servant kids gulped, then courageously asked after sharing eye contact with Ruba. The Haragol heiress watched curiously.
The boy looked to be about Vesiphis’s age. He was old enough to be privy to urgent matters in the family, such as food. 
Other kids might take joy at the sumptuous feast being arranged tonight. But he had overheard his parents grumbling about it last night, that there was hardly enough food to feed themselves, so why be this wasteful?
Of course, that was just a servant’s momentary grievance. And it wasn’t like the Onthoakt mistreated them either. In fact, they were considerably better off than some of the other villages in the area. The servants knew that, but gossip had a way to spread around.
Whether or not the food shortage was true, this boy wanted to do everything he could to help his family. The adults wouldn’t let him be a hunter since he wasn’t talented at cultivating. Still, he was very reluctant to run around the mountains as a farmhand servant.
The boy clenched his fists, then peered at the Earthloch lordling with anticipation.
Elrhain nodded with his nose pointing high. “Of course. We’ve uncovered so many peculiar and exotic tales in the disc-walkers’ memoirs, stuff that the adults or cultivators never even touch since they all think anything not related to cultivation is useless. I’m telling you, people need to read more, and learn to think. Not just speak high talks like Howell.”
The shark-eyed boy brushed off the insult like the dust on his clothes. “Rhainy! Stop teasing us and get to the point.”
“Okay, geez. So, since I only read this in one such scroll, I don’t know if it’ll actually work. But I think it’s worth the try! From now, you do everything I tell you, and if the spirits bless us, we will be rolling in fish in no time. Alright?”
Everyone echoed their affirmation. Vesiphis agreed as well, since he knew what had ensued in Onthoakt Slanout’s village. He felt helpless at the prince’s momentum, but expectant as well.
Cadfael sat to the side with a dour expression after being kicked in the shin by Agwyn for ignoring Cati and creeping her out. But even he shot his gaze over.
“Good.” Elrhain grinned. He pointed at the village kid who had asked him the question, “You there. What’s your name?”
“R-Roodles, my lord!” Roodles stammered. Agwyn giggled at the funny sight of a big lizard-faced kid talking so nervously to a toddling dumpling.
“We need a long and flexible branch. You look like the eldest of the village children here. Do you know where we can find one?”
“T-The Lontwood, my lord. Other than the shiny ones used for magic work, we can use the rest.”
“Excellent! Go bring me some.” 
Roodles yelped, then ran off.
“Ruba.” Elrhain continued. “Take some kids and bring back a few bundles of rope. It can be a vine or weaved, but it has gotta be strong.”
“I can!” Ruba eagerly lifted her hands. “They got Zakky vines near the drying scaffolds. They cut them up into smaller vines, then use them to hang fish meat! Can I bring some dried fish too?”
Elrhain gave her explicit permission. The Haragol heiress took off with her little buddies. Cati and Ysbail had been rather curious about the scaffolds, too, so they followed. The threats about foul smell didn’t deter them. 
As long as the area was clear of fish-gremlins, that is.
Elrhain barked more orders. 
A bucket-full of hooked teeth from the Sawmouth Snappers. Small chunks of gheist meat, the waste parts inedible for dhionne would suffice. 
A club. Just in case.
He thoroughly enjoyed the feeling. It reminded him of the time being a rich CEO.
Agwyn smiled at Elrhain’s back, then strolled towards the waterfront and sat down to contemplate. After tonight, a massive problem plaguing Earthloch would vanish into smoke. Since catching fish was never the hardest part. 
What came next would be the most crucial.
Handling that was her responsibility.






Chapter 59 - Meat Every Monday!

Elrhain picked up the end of a Lontwood pole about 3 metres long. They were bamboo-like in both feel and texture. Ringed, hollow, and fibrous. But they likewise had differences, such as the colour being a gradient of deep purple and green. Their leaves resembled that of maples, with branches looking more like prickly vines.
He unsheathed a small bone knife but remembered he was a toddler.
So he left shaving of the stray branches and splits to an eager Howell.
He then checked the Zakky vines. They were hairy, the metallic blue outer layer softly reflecting the light. At one end of the vines were large nodules bearing fronds, from the base of which these vines hung down like a horsetail.
Elrhain pulled on one vine with a thickness of roughly an inch. It seemed strong and flexible enough, considering Elrhain’s target prey wasn’t anything more powerful than a bluefin tuna.
“Take this!” He handed the vine to Vesiphis. “Bind one end of the vine really tight to the thinner end of the Lontwood pole. Using glue or sap too would be better, but….”
“Our house has Rubra sap!” Ruba said.
“Good. Bring it. Now, um, uncle Anouk.” Elrhain held out the teeth of the Sawmouth Snapper the village kids had gathered.
These weren’t the jagged edges of the saw-like upper jaw but the actual teeth from inside the gheist’s mouth. They were as wide as Elrhain’s palm, and their menacing edges were hooked inward. But rather than fish hooks, they resembled flat croissants.
They needed to be shaped.
Elrhain drew the general outline of a fishing hook on the sand with a stick. If this were Earth, they would need modern equipment to grind the bone tooth down. Using stones like cavemen did millennia ago would take too long, and the precision would also be undesirable.
But,
“Understood.” Captain Anouk nodded. He had been paying attention to their actions intently. As someone who had seen the whole proceedings in the Slanout settlement, the watch captain had faith in whatever plan the prince hatched up.
He was definitely curious about how the events would pan out and accepted the gheist tooth without complaint. 
His hand glowed red as he held his serrated dagger, then gently started shaving the tooth down to shape.
The manna powered labour was no less efficient than a modern-day industrial grinder.
A few minutes later, a shining white fishing hook was completed. There was a hole at one end of the hook to tie the vine, and the angular shape was perfected with the tip curving inward much more sharply.
“Excellent!”
By that time, Ruba had returned with a clay jar full of white tar-like substance, the magical Rubra sap.
“Hold on, Ruba. There’s something we need to do first.” Elrhain checked the shaft where Vesiphis tied the vine, scoring a few millimetres up and down with his knife. From there, he measured the Zakky vine, pointing to a spot about half a metre up from the vine’s loose end. He marked that too.
“Cut off a piece of Lontwood about a finger long. Then insert two narrower twigs, any will do, into the hollow inside, where the thinner of the two twigs should be longer, and the thicker one should be short. Half of each twigs’ body should stick out too. Yes, like that. Okay, this thing is called the float. Tie this to the spot I marked on the vine... That will do. Now attach this tooth hook at the end of the vine. Just loop it in.”
Vesiphis dutifully followed Elrhain’s instructions but couldn’t help asking, “M-My lord, is this some sort of binding weapon, like the chain tendrils Cadfael uses? I cannot imagine how even Ysbail or Cati can use this….”
“You don’t bind, you hook!” Elrhain said. “And it is not a weapon. It’s a tool, an instrument. You don’t fight with it.”
He ignored the winged boy’s perplexed look. In truth, Elrhain himself did not know if this DIY venture would bear fruit. On Earth, he had used a highly mechanical, motorized version of this instrument with a million sensors and sleek artificial intelligence.
He knew the basic construct and design and the purposes of the various constitutive parts. But as for the more subtle significance and nitty-gritty details behind the prehistoric form of a fishing hook, float, and line, he had zero idea.
But Elrhain was confident. If it worked for cave dwellers, it would work for dhionne.
Ruba giddily applied the gunk like glue on all the places the Zakky vines were tied to other things. After that, captain Anouk dried the adhesive using a basic heat spell.
“It’s done!” Elrhain looked over his creation.
A fishing pole.
A primitive one with no heed paid to physics or mathematics, one jury-rigged together with anything on hand. No line guides, not to mention reels or handles.
But Elrhain reckoned the first one used by his Earth ancestors was surely not any better. Ancient Egyptian anglers didn’t have magic either. At least Elrhain didn’t think so. No one could be absolutely sure what secrets the Pharaohs were hiding in their giant coffins other than onions and beetles, even in the 31st century.
“Ugh, so heavy.” The three-meter-long fishing pole, or fishing rod as some called it, was too heavy for a toddler like Elrhain to lift, and he fell backwards because of the weight of the 
Lontwood.
Elrhain stood up again while dusting his behind. He called for Ruba, Cati, and Ysbail. Agwyn, after thinking through a few complications regarding her future steps, also demanded he let her join the fun. 
Howell and Vesiphis, along with the village children, looked on curiously, with the shark-eyed boy literally begging Elrhain to explain the ins and outs of this mysterious gadget. But Elrhain refused. He insisted on proving that even the weakest non-cultivators could fish up a fortune with his subsequent actions, not words.
The five toddlers lifted the fishing pole up high under Elrhain’s repeated corrections. The Zakky vine fishing line was a good bit longer than the pole itself, so it left a slithering line on the sand as they towed it around.
“Vesiphis. Hook a small piece of meat on that tooth hook.”
The village kids had brought back a leaf of meat from the butcher about half a kilogram’s worth. Vesiphis cut off a finger-length piece from the chunk and pierced it onto the hook.
“Good.” Elrhain licked his lips, his voice failing to hide his excitement. “Now throw that hook into the water.”
If he could, he would have cast the line himself. But that was impractical in the current situation, where the fishing pole was multiple times taller than himself, and he couldn’t do a good rotation with his toddler's waist.
But that was fine because in his plans, the poles weren’t meant to be manned by toddlers at all.
Vesiphis threw the hook, along with the bait, towards the lake. The line stretched a few five meters before plunging with a plop, everything below the float sinking down. 
This section of the water was outside the cordoned off semi-circle. Even in the afternoon sunlight, they could vaguely see the contours of the many fish scamper away from the vicinity as the water was disturbed.
Mortal gheists. They roam in infinite numbers in every lake and river of Earthloch. Seemingly the only beings excused from the wrath of dhionne.
They had manna-poor flesh that was hardly worth wasting a hunter’s time. For he could use the same time, and manna, to hunt land gheists of far higher value, far more quickly. Plus, anything under the Earthen realm could not provide them with enough sustenance. So why should they waste their time fumbling in water for just one arm’s length of carp and trout?
Even mortal men overlooked them. Unlike a rabbit, they could not simply slash a sword at them. Nor could they dig pitfalls or lay rope traps to snare their ankles. Spearfishing should have been possible, especially in lakes with water as clear as Sagathan. But Elrhain had no recollection seeing it done nor reading any mention of it.
Entering the water was an even bigger folly. Because these mortal fish and gheists that make up the beautiful ecosystem of the lake depths were but a smokescreen to camouflage the actual dangers that lurked within.
Perhaps far in the past, the starving dhionne of those societies might have ignorantly swum into the treacherous waters without a high enough cultivation base to try their luck. Only to get bitten by a silk-thin poisonous snake, dragged down under by a behemoth worm, or serrated to bits by a swarm of hungry piranhas. 
The lakes harboured stranger dangers than anything a dhionne might encounter above. 
On land, they could run away. But in water, they will drown, as most do not have the organs or appendages necessary to adapt to an underwater environment like Howell and Rister.
For a mortal man’s doom, all it would take was one Earthen gheistrum, one beast that could empower itself with manna, one monster who could move faster than his eyes. It would throw even the most careful and daring mortal dhionne far out of his element in the face of such foreign foes.
That is why entering the lake outside the safe Lontwood barriers was strictly forbidden. 
Just like how on land, the great majority of the Earthlochian population scoured the mountain forests for edible tubers, plants, berries, and fruits all day long, hoping to fill their stomachs with a day’s worth of food. For the lakes, too, the best they could do was pick up the flopping creels, clams, crabs, and seaweed left on the shore as the tides recede.
Both the quality and quantity were nowhere near enough. Not even for servants, not to mention cultivators. 
So even if the bounty of foodstuff was right there under those shallow mirrors of blue, within arm’s reach, waiting to fill the belly of a starving dhionne with no hopes of cultivation. Accepting that invitation was a path not to salvation but to a punishing death.
The art of fishing, or hunting under the relentless waters of Earthloch, was a skill possessed by only a few. They were strong in their element but far fewer in number than the hunters of the land.
Thus, for many millennia, these smaller fish and lake-gheists lived being neglected. That was true even now, in the collapse when the hunting range of each dhionne settlement had shrunk exponentially. 
Although the collapse also brought a surge in the number of gheists, it would take many cycles for that to go up enough to support the vast Earthloch population, all of which was now stuffed in the small region of Lochuir.
Everyone looked anywhere they could and exhausted all means to dig out anything edible from under the dirt, beneath the stone, and deep in the rotting wood of dead trees. But nobody looked for the fish and shrimps beneath the lakes.
These creatures swam unabated in their nonchalance, mocking how powerless the two-legged, monkey-like land monsters were.
Wagging their tails with no sense of crisis, big plump catfishes and basses swayed close to the shore, knowing that no land-lubber dared to venture into their territory.
One particularly fat catfish with the haughtiest whiskers around even had the nerve to blow bubbles at the white bone-thing the small swarm of two-legged land monsters threw down.
It had juicy meat attached to it. Why would they toss such fresh food?
The fish cautiously circled the suspicious afternoon snack a few times. It nudged it with its muzzle, then gave it a quick nibble.
Yummy! Manna!
As it gulped down the manna-rich meat, the catfish scanned the area once more. It was the largest mortal gheist around; even the accursed long-spiked-hole-digger that burrowed under that spongy rock didn’t dare to lay claim to anything it wanted.
As for the two-legged ones above? The catfish knew that those monsters only went for the older and more powerful overlords of its kind. Besides, weren’t they the ones foolish enough to throw away delicious meat in the first place?
And once the meat was in the water, it was fish territory now.
So, the snobbish, unsuspecting catfish opened its mouth wide while feeling very pleased with itself and chomped!






Chapter 60 – Fish Fortune
"Nothing's happening," Ruba said, sulking. Elrhain snapped his eyes her way and urged her to be quiet with a suppressed voice. 
Silence was an indispensable part of fishing in his former life, as any loud noise would scare away potential catch. He did not know if that was the case here, but it didn't hurt to be careful.
Honestly, even if he preferred otherwise, it didn't matter if he failed to catch any fish after boasting so much. He would be left embarrassed. But ultimately, this was just an initial attempt, a reproduction of Earth's scientific knowledge in a 'grasp in the darkness' manner. 
In the grand scheme of things, failures were just as desired as successes. And it wasn't without reason that failure was called the mother of success.
Since Elrhain now had Agwyn's full support, he would try one thing after another. As responsibly as he could, he would go all out to see how his modern knowledge could influence the lives of the denizens of this world for the better. 
Besides, the resulting clash between his knowledge of a scientific Earth and the primitive yet charmed life of Fanas Diosca would be immensely crucial to him. 
For they might be the riposte to the unanswered questions of his seven decades of life on Earth that haunted him constantly. By the grace of luck or desire, Elrhain would not miss the chance to unearth them here in a world far, far away with all his heart and soul. 
For himself and for Agwyn.
What should his relationship be with his new, exuberant family? Can he trust them, and will they trust him back? Why even, in the first place, should he break out of his comfort zone to act like some kind of self-righteous messiah for people who are as ignorant as they are violent?
Elrhain did not know. But he knew that to keep a healthy mindset, he could not ignore his most precious wants, what Elrhain had determined he needed more than anything else. And so, he would try. 
Try today, and try again tomorrow, and the day after.
Until he found his answer. Until he could see the meaning to both his pitiful past and present bright lives.
The humid yet cold wind of the lake curled and curved, ruffling Elrhain's bangs as they gently covered his blue, slit pupils. He was the first person in the toddler heap of five children grabbing onto the fishing pole. Behind him were the slightly bored yet somewhat nervous faces of Ruba, Ysbail, and Cati.
Agwyn was last. She smiled sweetly, full of trust but with a hint of something else as their eyes crossed.
Within that split-second gaze, it was as if the spirits of the lakes and the goddess of fate themselves bestowed upon them the last morsel of luck they lacked.
The first opportunity, the fuzzy space of nothingness between success and failure.
"T-There’s something!” Howell yelped as loud as Alleigh as he cupped his eyes with his palms, focusing on the movement of the float. A second later, Elrhain, too, felt a slight tug in his hand.
“Woah!” The slight tug turned into a full-blown lurch, as the little boy could not keep his balance at the sudden appearance of the massive force.
Elrhain slipped, plopping forward with a cute ouch. The rest of the toddlers didn’t fare any better, each piling on top of Elrhain with their own adorable exclamations as the shaft of the fishing pole was wrenched out of their hands. 
Only Agwyn, with her herculean strength, grabbed on to it for dear life but refused to let go.
“Hahaha!” Even though she was dragged forward on the sandy shore on her belly like the second female victim of a deep-sea horror movie, her exhilaration was clear.
“Annie! Damnit! Vesiphis, grab her!” Elrhain paled, not sharing his best friend’s glee. He screamed.
But before the words had entirely left his mouth, someone else had shot forward as if catapulted by shadows.
Cadfael!
He clutched onto the fishing pole with his right hand, then planted his feet on the sandy shore. Whatever beast had bit the hook tried to wrestle with all its might, even dragging this mean cousin about two steps forward. 
The fishing line stretched tautly. It zig-zagged erratically, cutting the water.
Then it stopped. Great turbulence of sand and whirls was raised in the water under the battered float, proving the ongoing resistance of the trapped fish. But it was futile.
Cadfael simply held on with one hand. The shadows under his feet glued his body to the lakeshore like an unmoving tree stump. His eyes peered towards Agwyn, who now stood up with a deadpan face full of sand and twigs. 
The little girl let go of the fishing pole, then trotted back to Elrhain’s side without uttering a word.
She pulled Elrhain out from his prone position under Ruba, Ysbail, and Cati, then hid like a timid squirrel behind his back.
Elrhain was speechless. He coughed, finding it necessary to say something to the unexpected superhero despite the little girl’s reluctance to acknowledge Cadfael.
“T-Thanks.”
Cadfael narrowed his eyes as he looked away. The shadowy boy gripped the fishing pole with both hands before he spun around and pulled, swinging the shaft over his shoulder as if he was slashing down his sword.
The Zakky vine fishing line whipped once more, raising an audible swoosh. The water under the float ballooned, then finally, the beast was revealed.
The children watched in awe and fascination as Cadfael, the quietest of the Earthloch lot, dragged the large flabby form of a Whiskered Mudlynx straight out of the water into the air.
The catfish sailed overhead like a fat, slimy projectile. It pointlessly tried to flap its meaty tail and fins, its fleshy lips now hooked up to the other end of the fishing line, pierced to the bone tooth hook.
Thump!
It fell on the shore with a few bounces between Cadfael and Elrhain. 
Its chunky body was like a basketball, springing up and down along with its jittery flips. It let out a ‘Guh!’ and a ‘Guo!’ and floundered on top of the sandy shore wondering why its mouth hurt, why the two-legged land monsters were so close, and where all the water went!
It was clearly confused.
“W-W-Whaaaaa-,“ Howell choked in his absolute shock. He jumped up as if a fish-gremlin had bitten his buttocks, then, while windmilling his arms, dashed to the fat helpless fish with stars in his eyes. “What? Why! Hooow!”
He could not speak coherently. Simply staring at the weird fish, then at Cadfael, and eventually towards Elrhain.
“You hunted a gheist! You really did!” Ruba exclaimed, her gaze no less thrilled than Howell’s.
“Well, but without Cadfael…”
“You hunted a fish!” Ah, no good. No one was listening.
Ysbail, Cati, and the Haragol heiress ran to the catch too, ah’ing and oo’ing. This was it; this was their very first hunt. And they did it all by themselves, without manna or magic, just like Elrhain had said!
The village kids followed after Ruba with faces laden with disbelief. Soon they too surrounded the catfish while voicing their astonishment and confusion. 
They had helped make the rope stick! They helped hunt it too!
“M-My lord. Amazing. No, truly godlike. I have no words but to praise, for you once again prove the depths of your wisdom.” Vesiphis, whom Cadfael beat to the punch in saving Agwyn, made his way towards Elrhain and Agwyn with a voice mixed half with trepidation and half with second-hand pride. Even Captain Anouk, who strolled behind, had a look on his face as though he could not decide if he should be doubtful or delighted.
“T-This trinket, this weapon. My lord calls it a fishing pole? How in the world did our forefathers never think of a … thing so simple!” But although the winged boy looked lukewarm in his expression, his words betrayed the turmoil in his heart. Before long, this eldest cousin's forced poker face was thoroughly broken by his own panicked blabbering.
“I think I get it. S-So utterly stupid, yet ingenious like a veteran hunter. The gheist bit the hook-shaped bone hidden by the meat and couldn’t get free. It is a trap, a trap we can wield rather than set! We use hooks so much in daily life, yet, yet… ah!”
Elrhain took a step back, avoiding Vesiphis’s spittle as he rambled nonsense. Of all people, he did not foresee the eldest cousin to have a mental breakdown! 
No, Elrhain corrected himself. It was an epiphany, not a breakdown. A eureka moment of the possibilities that mundane things possessed.
And it was getting on Elrhain’s nerves.
“—the hook. That peculiar shape of a hook within a hook. They all-“
“Vesiphis!” Elrhain shouted.
“W-What?” Vesiphis jolted awake, then turned his eyes downward to find Elrhain with his nose scrunched up and Agwyn looking at him as if sizing up a fruit. 
Elrhain scanned Vesiphis’s face for a moment, then grinned a toothy smile. He would answer Vesiphis’s questions later. Now was the time for action, not words!
“Let’s make more.”
The winged boy was taken aback. But before he could respond, the reply came from behind.
“Yes! More, we need more of these hook-traps.” It was Howell. “Rhainy! We’s got enough sticks and vines here to make seven or eight more of these weapons. We can, right? I’m gonna catch so much fish today, pa’s gonna pop his eyes out.”
Elrhain tilted his body sideways to look behind Vesiphis and past Howell, who was pushing the former from behind.
Ruba and the village kids were throwing the big, incredibly uncomfortable looking catfish up and down while singing a strange song about seaweeds and worms. Cadfael had left to brood in the corner after stealing the spotlight. Still, his eyes were glued in this direction. Was he looking at Agwyn or Elrhain?
Captain Anouk had somewhen walked to Cadfael’s side too. The man squatted down, examining the fishing pole top to down while keeping an index finger on his forehead.
「It’s done, right? 」Elrhain asked.
「Yup. Leave mommy and grandpa to me. 」Agwyn nodded as she replied.
Howell still eagerly awaited even as Vesiphis tugged his ears. So did Roodles. The village boy had a sort of reverence oozing from his being after he witnessed firsthand the fishing pole’s mystical, out of this world ability. 
As the honourary vice-president of the Alps Lake Leisurely Fishing Club, he knew what Roodles was feeling well and clear.
It gratified Elrhain.
“For the last time, it’s a fishing pole!” He yelled, but the grin didn’t escape his smug face at all. “But heck, make as many as you want. But a tenth of all fish goes to Alleigh or no deal!”








Chapter 61 – Two Distinct Nightmares
All hell broke loose with Elrhain’s irrevocable authorization. 
Like a mob of preschoolers high on magic glucose, the children squealed and scrambled. They giggled and bantered as they started crafting the second article of the first real Earth technology Elrhain had at last unveiled in this primordial world.
“We need a grip,” Elrhain said. 
He dusted off the rest of the sand from Agwyn’s skirt and sleeves. Her hair had just been washed and dried. He had also removed the twigs and shells from what had been a veritable bird’s nest.
The little princess was eager for another try at fishing immediately. But Elrhain wanted no more mishaps. Failure was only valuable when one learnt from it.
“Hmm, let me think.” He picked up a Zakky vine and smashed one end with a stone to split it. Looking at the individual strings, he happened upon an idea. He went to his trusty handyman Vesiphis and got him to wrap the Lontwood shaft of the fishing pole with the split Zakky vines like a bandage. After that, he slathered the whole thing in Rubra sap.
As it dried, it turned rubbery. Elrhain tested the grip and found the friction acceptable.
「Then this time, you guys can’t let go either and will be dragged through sand like me?」 Agwyn innocently asked.
「Good point.」
The fifteen odd kids had just about finished crafting their own fishing poles. They looked too impatient to waste any more time on tedious safety precautions. So Elrhain could only drop the idea of forcing them to make the grips too.
Roodles’s group bowed to captain Anouk as the watch captain handed another hooked tooth over. Next in line were two other children, both servant girls from the village.
“T-Thank you, lord cultivator.” Roodles stammered, then excitedly fastened the hook to the fishing line.
Just like that, the seven odd fishing poles were completed. Elrhain took that in, then called out to everyone including captain Anouk into a huddle.
“The last time was dangerous. Annie was almost dragged down under. So avoiding that, each group will have no fewer than two big kids, okay?”
Everyone nodded.
“Howell, Vesiphis. You can fish alone. But keep an eye out so that no one gets dragged away again. Captain Anouk, can you do the same?”
Again, nods.
“Good. Then what are you waiting for? Let’s prove to the adults that even mortal children can safely hunt gheists if they use their brains!”
Everyone cheered with a cacophony of childlike exclamations. Under the lead of Elrhain and the ever so excited Howell, the first-ever organized fishing party of Uorys Diosca officially started.
***
“Wha-, a gheist ate our Zakky vine!” One little girl who looked around six or seven screamed. She was in Roodles’s group with four others, all spectacularly dumbfounded at the abrupt turn of events.
As this unsuspecting giddy group lifted the fishing line from the water under Roodles’s lead, everything under the float was already gone. Only leaving bite marks. 
A fish had dined and dashed, with the culprit nowhere to be seen!
Four of them broke down crying, while Roodles hurried to cheer them up as he repaired the fishing line with one of the extra hooks captain Anouk had crafted under Elrhain’s orders.
At the same time, another group of children joined in the tear-shedding activities. The Lontwood pole lying on the sand in front of them was snapped into two pieces at the narrower top.
Perhaps it was a particularly brutish gheist, but this relatively weaker fishing pole broke like a twig during the tug of war, shocking this group of children mightily.
Everyone else had better luck. 
Well, kind of.
“Heaveeeeee!” Elrhain yelled, and his toddler army pulled the shaft with all the strength they could muster, planting their feet into the sand. Finally, sweating like oily braised beef, the kids roared and dragged whatever was tussling with them onto the shore.
It was a worm.
A nasty thing with nineteen spikes jutting out of its body randomly. It had smaller, even more terrifying worms living inside its round, grinder-like mouth. Not to mention its tongue, which had its own miniature second maw of doom.
This second maw was biting onto the hook, gnawing on the tooth like some delicacy.
Ysbail screamed, then ran away.
“Ah, a wiggly. This one is so spiky!” Ruba said. “Father said you could only eat spikey wigglies in winter when they come out of their hiding holes. My lord’s rope-stick can even catch these, awesome!”
“It’s a fishing pole!” Elrhain protested. “So, these, uh, are edible?”
Ruba nodded, “They’re delish. Their meat is all soft and bouncy, not like the hard, chewy ones of land gheists. Can I take a bite? Please?”
“Er, after cooking, alright?”
Ruba yay’ed. Agwyn poked the ‘wiggly’ with a stick. Apparently, according to Ruba, it had some other name. But the kids called every worm-like thing that could wiggle, a wiggly.
Said wiggly snapped at the offending stick, crunching it into fragments.
“It also eats with the little mouth! Wow~” The princess was awed by wonder. “It’s like a Bobbit worm.” She poked it a few more times. 
“Hehehe. Ysbail! Come back here; I found you a new friend.”
“Nooo! Stay back. Gwynnie, don’t be mean to me!”
Elrhain sighed, then went back to mending the fishing line with Cati and Ruba. The wiggly had punctured a few holes into the Zakky vines. It’ll probably snap if they cast it again as was. For now, all they could do was cut off the tattered part and then re-tie the float and hook anew.
These fishing poles were after all, DIY. Elrhain was sure that there were better materials to make them more robust, flexible, and efficient overall. Heck, even magic could play a part.
But he didn’t want to be the one to make those changes. For one, he simply had insufficient knowledge of this world and the raw materials available. Two, he would use this as the spark for innovation. The carrot to the stick, the driving force fueled by need and greed!
Elrhain sorted out a few of the steps of his future master plan.
A little further away, one adult and three Earthloch scions furiously fished away, not minding his creepy snickers.
The village kids had made six poles. Apparently, two of them were for Captain Anouk and the gloomy Cadfael.
The watch captain received the ‘rope-stick’ with interest after carving the final hook. He didn’t really need any repayment for his work as Elrhain’s wish was literally his command. Still, he looked pretty engrossed in the prince’s new toy. Perhaps as an adult and an essential member of the clan Watch, he could already gleam its significance in the coming days of the collapse.
Besides, from the past few months of knowing the guy, Elrhain couldn’t really see someone like him turning down the glistening puppy dog eyes of so many twiddly village runts.
Howell had made his own, refusing any and all help even when carving the hook. He had spouted cryptic theories about fish hunting. How he as a veteran applied them to his masterwork… that looked exactly like the ones the others made. 
But as if to prove Elrhain wrong, it performed far better. Incomprehensibly so, that Elrhain suspected if there was foul magic at play.
Whatever the case, there was now a pile of thirteen flopping fish, each weighing over five kilograms, inside the basket-deep hole Howell had dug on the shore to store them. 
One of the village kids, a toddling girl a little older than Elrhain, hoisted a wooden club and thwacked each of those flopping fish on the head once, and they ceased flopping.
Dead… unconscious? The girl carefully checked them over, then ran to the basket holes of everyone else and repeated the process. Only the fat catfish shuddering with panic with the wiggly inside Elrhain’s group’s basket-hole were free from her wrath.
By now, the sun had about set into slumber. The sepia sky turned a blazing orange at the horizon. Above, it was a greyish black with the twinkle of the barely peeking stars shining out. The first moon had been unveiled, but the hazy crescent was waiting for her many friends to join her in her celestial dance.
All that luminance and the fiery light of the cooking and bonfires of the feast leaked over to where the kids were having the time of their life.
It kissed the back of the giddy Howell, highlighted the sharp border of a Cadfael’s impassive face, and bounced off the fuzzy yet leathery wings of Vesiphis, who cheered as he caught his second crab.
And as the club-wielding demonic little girl bashed to death her nth aquatic victim with blood splatters painting her face, the same orange light graced her with a terrifying aura no preschooler, primitive or not, should ever have.
Agwyn clapped her hands with a peep, then ran to the club-wielding girl while towing a scared Ysbail along. 
Elrhain shuddered, the premonition of danger shooting through the roof.
Just when he was about to call Agwyn back using the repaired fishing line as an excuse, he spotted a group of dhionne approach them from the corner of his eyes.
‘Finally!’
He put the bad influence the club-wielding girl could have on his future bride at the back of his mind and observed the new arrivals with a calculative gleam.
Four men, two women, and five youngsters looking to be in their teenage years. They were being led by one of the village girls Elrhain had sent away. They would be Elrhain’s key to hijacking today’s feast into being something far more purposeful.






Chapter 62 – Feast of the Soul
The girl dragged an older teenager and a woman by their arms while shouting, “Mother, elder Brother, see? I told you I wasn’t lying. The prince really taught us how to hunt gheists!”
As if to prove her point, the third fishing team led by another of the older village children hauled in a Gnarly Eel from the lake waters with perfect timing, raising gasps from the visitors.
“See? See? It’s the rope stick! We don’t have to trouble lord cultivators for meat anymore. We can get it ourselves!”
The girl pipped and preened as though the achievement was hers.
The teenager, supposedly her elder brother, cautiously made his way to the caught Eel and took a deep breath as he watched the slimy creature wiggle. Very alive, very real. He gawked as he noticed the many basket-holes filled with all kinds of seafood catches.
Fish, snakes, shrimp, and crabs. Not merely the left-over clams and critters after an ebbing tide, but true and pure gheists from the lakes!
Elrhain trotted over and gestured at the repaired fishing pole. “Want to give it a try?”
“Yes!” the younger sister answered for her elder brother, who was floundering into a hasty bow. She didn’t wait for Elrhain to teach the newcomers the know-how either, proudly proclaiming the method to cast the line and attach the bait with puffed chests.
Before long, the adult villagers lost their reservation and approached the kids of their own families. They got the hang of the process faster amidst the exciting explanations. Being physically stronger, they also did not run into many of the difficulties the weaker younglings did.
“Useless. Give me that! Do you want to make me lose face in front of old hunter Akmon’s son?” One man yelled at his much taller son as he snatched the fishing pole away from the youngster. The boy had failed for the third time to pull up what was probably the same Three-eyed Burbot the family to their left had just caught. He had no face left!
“Aye, that’s a Longclaw Crawfish alright. I’ve not had one since my pop’s days.” Another old man said, reminiscing that one time his family was fortunate enough to spear up this delicious crustacean that now dangled in front of him.
“Haha, ol’ Bandy, looks like the Longclaw Crawfish we’ve caught is longer than yours!” Yet a third man, younger than the first two, teased. He held up the crawfish with a bark-like outer shell as if to show off.
To his fellow villagers, to his club-wielding little sister. And most importantly, to the prince and princess with a mix of fear, anticipation, veneration, and hope.
More people came drawn by the commotion, drowning out even the busy preparations of the feast. They first looked on skeptically. Until another round of loud cheers at some successful hunt or failed tug of war shattered their defenses to smithereens.
Mouths went agape, as hands did rise in the air. More people learnt of the magic of fishing in a dazed haze. More people gradually collected their bearing, mustering up the courage and enthusiasm. They threw away whatever dull wood they were chopping or meat they were roasting and squatted down, crafting their own poles under the delighted kids’ guidances. It reached the point where even Elrhain, Agwyn, and captain Anouk had to stop fishing to help out.
The blazing light moved. 
It no longer illuminated the meaningless venue of the feast for the royalty and now cast its orange radiance on the feast of the soul, where the budding first blush of civilization was taking shape.
It was accompanied not by the bitter discontent of the servants and their want for more food, but the laughter of children and parents alike with dreams of a better future.
***
Bromwyn poured more aged fruit-pulp mixed with spring water into the chitinous container. Opposite to him, sitting in the village headsman’s seat, was the current leader of the Haragol Onthoakty, Randuman Earthloch Haragol.
The old man, who was about two inches shorter than Bromwyn, filled his own cup to the brim and hailed, “Chieftain, Here’s to continued prosperity and triumph in the collapse. This Randuman can testify without a doubt after seeing the current Earthloch scions that the future is bright! Notably Cadwell, Morys, and Livian’s kids, already better fighters than I was at thrice their age. Shame that the prince and princess are so young. Two years later, I will assuredly make sure to pay attention to the entire process of how they hunt aquatic gheists with main house teachings.”
“Hahaha. I could not agree more. But, ahem, I think five cycles old is still too young for my dear Gwyn. In any case, it looks like the Haragols too have settled in nicely in this place. I see the scaffolds full of gheist meat and the hunter’s hauling impressive Sagathan catches.” Bromwyn clinked his cup with Randuman’s, then chugged the whole thing down. Hiding the fact that he absolutely, utterly refused to let Agwyn come anywhere near the Haragol settlement again for the next three, no, five cycles at least.
This old coot was too much, wanting to make his baby girl fistfight with slimy, greasy lake monsters. Not on his watch!
Randuman, oblivious to the Siorrakt’s inner turmoil, let out a heavy sigh as he replied to Bromwyn’s earlier statement. “Aye, that might not be the case. With the manna becoming richer, we’ve had to throw away more parts of gheists now. The few Sawmouth Snappers your house’s kids caught today were actually the only low Earthen realm gheists I’ve seen in the last week. And I fear the situation will only get worse.”
“Even in lake Sagathan?” A sombre look set on Bromwyn’s face as he asked the question. The lakes in Lochuir, especially Sagathan, were always known for their gheists having less poisonous flesh, even at higher ranks. It was one of the reasons the founders established themselves here so many ages ago.
Randuman nodded. “There’re a few manna-rioghs spawning some low realm gheistrums. But it’s only a matter of time before these too ascend in realms. The only things left are the mortal critters, but those are only good for filling your stomach and not cultivation. At least for Earthen and up. I can’t force the Haragol hunters to seek them just for mortal folks. There’ll be deserters leaving for other noble houses! I bet the East and West high-noses would love to see that happen.”
“That’s true.” Bromwyn looked out of the window. The sun had set, and the stars conquered the sky. There seemed to be a ruckus coming from the distance. Joyous voices if he’d ever heard any. Were the people here really that glad to be hosting the main house?
Bromwyn renewed his resolve. Many problems were plaguing his land because of the sudden collapse. But nothing was unsolvable with grit, blood, and sweat. In fact, his father, the Grand Elder of the clan, was already in the process of devising an answer to the food problem so preposterous, the other high noble clans would vomit their lungs out at its mere mention if not wage war outright.
But desperate times called for desperate measures. And the collapse brought Earthloch both desperation and time.
“I will let my father know. Try to hold out until Equinox. By then, we will have a solution. I promise you this.” Bromwyn downed another cup of the pulp-water. “Now then, about the matter from before. An acolyte from the Grand Shamanka and Elder Croneira’s place should have reached you.”
“Those black, big-eyed rats eh? I’ve let my hunters know. My second cousin who is the Haragol shaman and his apprentice, our healer, has confirmed it too.” Randuman said. “To think that these tiny vermin were the ones spreading the child taking Swampling’s curse. We’ve already killed and burnt a good hundred around these parts, but they never seem to end.”
Bromwyn lightly knocked his knuckles on the stone floor. “That’s the problem. There might be a manna-riogh spawning them. But the delvers have found nothing. And not one rat has a core, which at least a few should even though they are in the mortal realm. That is, if they truly are first-generation riogh-spawned gheistrums.”
Bromwyn stopped, then exhaled out. He saw Romero returning to the house from the window with a perplexed look on his face. The commotion outside also seemed to have grown louder.
The chieftain cracked his neck. A weird feeling rose from within, telling him something was not quite right. He spoke with an uncertain note, which was soon drowned out by pride. “Whatever may be the case, we can only wait until the end of the five winters. If these vermin all die out, then that is great. If not, well, we will see when that happens. And besides, the Swampling’s curse has already been defeated.”
“Hahaha! And so it has. Man, that announcement at the grand hall was truly something. As expected of the Grand Elder, so artful even when showing off!”
“It isn’t showing off when it’s the truth, good Onthoakt!” Bromwyn beamed. “My son and daughter are geniuses. I’m willing to bet even with The Besmirched Hoarder, Roggh’zhist, The Scorched Wormgod Over-under, that if they were twenty cycles older, they’d probably sniff out perfect solutions to our problems from the unending scrolls in the dust-covered archives.”
“I can see that happening. The prince talked more grumpy than my second cousin’s first son. And let me tell… Hmm?” Randuman stopped in the middle of his guffaw and looked outside. “Hasn’t it gotten noisier?”
Bromwyn agreed, at last finding the raucous outside unnatural too. “I thought the Haragol folks were always like this, taking after your carefree attitude.”
“How strange. Although my daughter-in-law and son always tell me I am too out of it compared to all other nobles. Speaking of which, Romero, you are back. What’s all this noise about? Did Ol’ Bandy start telling off the young’uns again?” Randuman called out to his eldest son, who had entered the house sweating as though he had just sprinted three mountains in one breath.
“N-No. I mean, yes. But not quite.” Romero panicked. “Father, it’s the prince. H-He-“
Randuman leaned forward while Bromwyn stood up with the force of a volcano, his eyes glowing lilac red. “What happened?”
Romero gulped down his panic. 
“He hunted a gheist.”
“WHAT?!”






Chapter 63 – Pre-emptive Pig tailing
The fire pits were snuffed out, and so were the bonfires. The place of the feast in front of the village’s center courtyard was quiet. It was humming with life just an hour ago, but now only had some small forest critters sniffing a half-roasted leg of meat curiously. A fish gremlin eyed the butchered upper-jaw of a Sawmouth Snapper from a distance while wiggling its tendrils. A Kaloxen calf rushed past the Cloudberry brush in the yard but stumbled to a stop. It turned around and headed back to the Kaloxen sheds.
There were no dhionne, hence no treats or neck pats.
Like a village ravaged by a gheist tide, left behind to rot with the dead souls of Blue Banshees. Yet, there was no carnage. And the din from just a few stone’s throws away broke that illusion of silence.
Bromwyn could see the silhouettes of the missing villagers lining the shoreside near the lake waters. The contours of the old, young, and even children moved around with palpable avidity. They planted torches in the sand, lighting the whole place up like the late-night shire banquets. Even the intensity was the same as if they had just wrapped up a major hunt out from a sinister manna-riogh.
Maybe they had.
An elderly man with a serpentine back hurriedly made his way towards them. He had droopy eyelids and a head too large to balance properly with his spindly long neck. Two ears like fish fins jutted out from his shaggy, coiled hair. He carried two large Crawfish in his hands tied by grass ropes under their claws and sported a grin revealing his cracked yellow teeth.
“Me lord! Good you could make it.”
“Ol’ Bandy? Those are Longclaw Crawfish if my eyes aren’t playing tricks. Romero wasn’t speaking drunk tales? It’s actually true that the Earthloch prince invented a strange hunting technique for you folks?”
“Sure did! But he calls it fishin’ poles. Gets all mad like an explodin’ fire fruit when we say otherwise.” Ol’ Bandy pointed in a particular direction. Elrhain was there, vigorously moving his hands as he explained away to an attentive audience. Agwyn too chipped in from time to time, raising laughter from Elrhain and villagers alike.
“The royal lordling’s something else. Never in my life did I think me old bones could hunt a gheist again. But lo and behold.” Ol’ Bandy said. “By the by. Do we have to include these to the cyclic tributes me lord? Some young’uns been asking if we’re allowed to fish like this. Clan rules never said anything about it, and geezer Grammadu, the storyteller, can’t say either.”
Randuman waved his hand. “It’s fine. We can discuss it later. Rather than that, you all can continue fishing tomorrow since the night is no longer young. The lake won’t run away. But what’s going to happen to the feast if no one mans the fires? Or do you want the prince who taught you to hunt again to go hungry? What would the other villages say when they learn that we, the Haragols, are ungrateful enough to starve our benefactors?”
Something seemed to click in Ol’ Bandy’s brain. “Aye! Didn’t think of it like that. Now, we can’t have no one saying we scalefolks are ungrateful. Don’t worry me lord, I’ll drag everyone back to cook up the best seafood the lordling’s have ever eaten right away. Actually, let me put these two Crawfish here. The prince was saying how he’d never eaten one.”
With that, the hunched old man placed the two mortal gheists beside the butchered Sawmouth Snapper. Then, gripping his kilt with his bony hands, Ol’ Bandy sauntered back to the others.
Randuman said with a thoughtful expression, “Siorrakt. Although it pains me to refuse, let this Randuman decline your offer for a bet.”
Bromwyn ruffled his Viking hair, still looking at his darling son-in-law and daughter. The two children were acting like they had no idea what an epoch shattering, mind-boggling, colossus of a feat they had just pulled off. 
Randuman continued. “Because it looks like let alone twenty cycles, the prince and princess have already sniffed out a solution to one of Earthloch’s most pressing problems today!” 
With that, the dirty old man burst into a guffaw and thumped his trunk like a gleeful gorilla. 
Bromwyn could only sigh with a “Yeah.” He decided to leave the complicated thinking to his old man. As a father, all Bromwyn could do now was protect his two gems from evil eyes, and that would be enough.
***
“Daddy! Can Ruba come p-play with us in the Elder’s Rest? Can she? Please? I promise I won’t let her break anything.” Agwyn twittered while holding a steaming hot roasted tuber the colour of mangoes. The little girl turned her upturned eyes towards him.
Bromwyn had no defences against that despite his peak Oceanic cultivation. He could only nod like one of those Impelakty eunuchs, fawning mindlessly at the cuteness enraptured him.
It had been a few hours since Elrhain had introduced fishing. If Ol’ Bandy hadn’t yelled his way into persuading the villagers with his annoying yet impeccable logic, they would have most likely continued fiddling with fishing poles throughout the night.
But unsurprisingly, the lord’s order won out. The cooking for the feast soon wrapped up amidst everyone’s high morale. 
Any other day, all the kids would have been long asleep by this time. But tonight, Ysbail and Cati talked about everything under the sun with Ruba, not minding if their words made sense or not. Then they would inevitably come back to fishing and start making grandiose plans. 
Howell continued studying the eight properties of the fishing pole he had found out with a few village youngsters. Even the adults lent him their ears. They acknowledged his skills despite his much younger age and the fishing pole being out for hardly a few hours.
And for the villagers themselves, the topic that dominated their discussions was one and the same. Fishing poles, hook-traps, and rope-sticks.
Even Bromwyn was half distracted, his mind wandering back to Elrhain explaining the how-to-dos of this simple yet effective object to Randuman. 
The feast ended in a flash, and the midnight moon had already unveiled. No one cared how the time seemed to flow so mercilessly as they chattered and laughed. 
Bromwyn tucked the two kids under the blanket and delicately caressed Agwyn’s cheek. The little girl uttered an illegible sound, then reflexively pushed his hand away. She rolled over and grabbed Elrhain’s arm like a body pillow.
The other Earthloch scions, excluding Cadfael and including Ruba of Haragol, were snuggled into a snoring pile in the next room, snoozing away. The chieftain himself would accompany these dumplings for the night in case of emergency. It’s a task he had gladly taken upon himself to spend even one more minute in his silly and forgetful daughter's company.
He would never regret that, for it was his pride and joy. He would never, ever think otherwise…
“Buahaha. Do you see Romero? Your old man still has it. Who else can claim to hunt ten Rockfin Hatchlings in but a half hour? Who dares?”
…if not for Randuman’s boisterous laughter echoing out from outside.
‘Detestable! What, ‘the lake won’t run away’. How dare that old coot be so audacious? How can the host run away to fish throughout the night while the guest has to remain acting as a guardian! I’m his Siorrakt no less. Can I consider this mutiny?’ Bromwyn massaged his temples and tried to shut the Haragol Onthoakt’s loud voice out. But alas, he was peak Oceanic. His senses were too sharp.
‘I want to try the fishing pole too!’
Tonight would be a restless night for many.
***
The next day.
Elrhain and Agwyn were already back in the clan courtyard and lazed away on their bed. Today was a rest day. They both refused to go cultivate in a damp cave after yesterday’s fun night of festivities. Not to mention the torture Lilian had put them through this dawn.
There was a tearful farewell with her new fourth BFF, Ruba, just a few hours ago. But Agwyn would be alright. After all, Bromwyn promised to let the Haragol heiress cultivate with them in the Elder’s Rest under Tudor’s teachings tomorrow onwards.
Elrhain slapped his pudgy arms, then his legs. 
「It feels so tingly.」
「They made us sit in a scrying array first thing in the morning! It bloody sparked like Pikachu. Of course it’s tingly.」 Agwyn said with a vexed voice. 「I can’t believe that Naeman witch. She cut my hair! The nerve of that pompous slut!」
The little girl eyed the end of the lock of hair she usually twirled with a forlorn expression. It was about two inches shorter now, and it looked absolutely hideous. An event catastrophic enough to ruin the rest of Agwyn’s day.
「That’s it.」 Agwyn head-butted her pillow as if it could magically solve all her cosmetic problems. 「I don’t want to take this any longer. It’s not like their voodoo MRIs can even detect anything.」
「They were jotting down notes though. Are you sure?」
「Positively. They can only find something after I tell them where to look for it. And I will do that tonight. I think mommy and daddy will be less cranky too. They sound so mentally worn out.」 
「Are you sure you’re sure?」
Agwyn suddenly sat up, then crossed her arms. 「Ellie, why must you always make me so distressed?」
「W-What is it now?」 Elrhain stammered, dropping the curving of Alleigh he played with.
「You put up a mental barrier again!」
Elrhain looked away, knowing not to step into a trap intentionally. Naturally, this didn’t make Agwyn stop pestering.
Finally, the girl harrumphed with a, 「Fine! But know that I will be highly vocal about my discontent! 」
「You have that legal right and the freedom of expression as a legitimate citizen of the Collective.」
「Meanie.」
The two spent the rest of the day bantering and gossiping, pulling Cyra’s hair when she wasn’t looking, and being a nuisance to all the servants working around their primitive complex.
Finally, it was supper. The time to execute the plan weeks in the making.
But as Agwyn was prepared to hurl the measured bombshells onto her family’s unprepared noggins; she was preemptively ambushed by the last person she wanted to meet tonight.
Lilian, the Grand Shamanka, placed a stunned Agwyn on her lap and spoke with a sombre voice as she braided the little girl’s hair into pigtails. “Gwyn dear. Don’t you have something very important to share with us?”




Chapter 64 - The Gallows Call the Girl

“Gwyn. Mommy and Daddy won’t say anything since they pamper you so much. But as the Grand Shamanka of the clan, I cannot remain silent about this grave transgression.” Lilian stated. She deftly moved her fingers to shape Agwyn’s leafy hair into two magnificent tails of piglets.
But the woman herself had not the tenderness associated with the act. Her eyes flickered with a kind of stern admonishment.
The little princess’s face reflected on Lilian’s irises started quivering. Agwyn looked up, her eyes pitifully big and glossy. But it didn’t work. Not this time.
Lilian was determined to maintain clan tradition.
“What will everyone think if word gets out? The subordinate houses will no longer look at us the same, not to mention the other high nobles. What will the servants think? This concerns not just you, but the reputation of every man and woman of the main house.”
“B-B-B- Hic!” Agwyn hiccupped with her face all scrunched up, blushing a lavender pink. 
The little bun frantically searched for the prince consort. Elrhain was resting on Eluned’s lap, nibbling away at a giant crustacean, seemingly not yet wise to her plight.
Agwyn was about to scamper away like a runaway raccoon, but Lilian had braced herself for all contingencies. She resolutely picked her up by her armpits and placed the struggling girl back on her lap. Agwyn cried with giant pearly droplets falling out like a waterfall, still hiccupping as though she had forgotten which way was up or down.
It was as if an arrow had punctured everyone’s hearts…. Except for the cruel Grand Shamanka’s.
Cyra was opened her mouth to plead the little bun’s case. While Bromwyn looked like someone had physically slugged him.
‘No! I must do this.’
Lilian communicated that to the two overprotective parents. Her glare rendered all objections moot.
From the corner of her eyes, she saw Elrhain cock his head with an ‘Eh?’. The boy peeked around as if belatedly realizing something unusual was going on. He warily put down the half-eaten crawfish claw, then observed Lilian’s face with vigilance.
To the side was Thundham. The old man coughed while cupping his mouth, then shuffled into the grass stuffed Zabuton with eyes closed. See no evil, hear no evil. If Lilian wasn’t in the sky realm, she wouldn’t have noticed Thundham’s brows squinching ever so slightly.
Dofnald and Eluned just looked baffled. The former servant wife placed a peeled shrimp onto Elrhain’s plate like an automaton. She then went back to peeling more, hesitating if she should choose a blue or red prawn this time.
For some reason, Elrhain threw his head backwards witnessing all this. The boy shot Lilian a look as if to say, ‘Just out with it! Can’t you see Annie is scared?’, then went back to eating.
Lilian shot back a, ‘What? You think you will be let off?’
But the prince couldn’t do telepathy. Lilian mused inwardly at her own childish actions.
By then, the princess had ended her resistance, settling onto Lilian’s lap with an expression of martyrdom.
Usually, seeing such a piteous Agwyn would have rendered anyone’s heart like the slash of a serrated dagger. That certainly seemed to be the case with Cyra and Bromwyn.
But Lilian was too old to feel so squirmish. Someone as experienced as she had already used Agwyn’s tactics to much greater degrees when she herself was a youngster. 
Moreover, there was something…. off about the prince and princess’s reactions to all this that Lilian just couldn’t put her finger on.
The exalted Grand Shamanka sighed, again bringing her attention back to the matter at hand. The faster she concluded, the better for everyone.
“It is irresponsible. As the sole inheritor of the clan, what shall we all do if something truly unfounded happens to you? This is something Tudor should have hammered into you much earlier! Why did you keep it a secret for so long no less? I will first hear your excuses before we settle on a punishment!”
Lilian had assumed that the princess would burst out into a wail rivalling the angry squalls of monsoon, like this pampered princess was so prone to do when things didn’t go her way.
But she didn’t. Agwyn leaned away, putting her thumb in her mouth and suckling.
“I-Is Annie going to be e-executed? Am I not wanted anymore?”
““NO!”” Four voices shrieked out at once, and Thundham cleared his throat loud enough to terrify a dragon.
Lilian was also at a loss for words.
“You have nothing to say?” The Grand Shamanka asked with trepidation.
“I-Is Annie, a bad girl? I-I am sorry if I did bad things. Are you going to make my E-Ellie marry someone else after Annie’s cold, decaying corpse is fed to the shrimpies and fishies?”
Lilian stared up with her shoulders sagging, looking blankly at the stone ceiling. The dumpling on her lap had accepted her unjust fate, seemingly not aware of her crimes at all.
“No… Annie. Okay, don’t glare. Gwyn, why didn’t you tell us you have almost ignited all one thousand nodes in your Totemic Soul?”
“Huh? That’s what this is about?” This time, it was Elrhain. The boy dropped a large piece of crab meat onto his trousers at the revelation, raising an indignant moan from Eluned.
“I did?” The perpetrator in question answered with another question. Lilian could swear she saw the little girl stumble momentarily as if she had lost her composure. Agwyn had hastily covered it up and now spoke with a stiff smile.
“Yes! Spirits bless us. Why is such a talented inheritor so slow in head faculties. By the good name of the Overgods, you didn’t even notice how many nodes you have ignited?” Lilian gave up, then slapped her temples while muttering something in an unknown language.
It was probably a fancy swear word.
Agwyn on the other hand picked up her courage at the outrageous insult and began shouting really creative expletives, furiously defending her intellect. 
Lilian just stared at the angry squirrel with lilac eyes. She knocked on Agwyn’s head, shouting, “Princess. Cultivation is the one thing a dhionne can really do to better herself. Tudor should have warned you of the repercussions. Do you want to be the first Earthloch heiress in our three hundred thousand cycle history to enter manna deviation even while mortal?! Death would shame our ancestors less!”
“B-But Annie forgot!” The princess was unusually defiant about this. Maybe it was because Elrhain was rolling on the ground, laughing like crazy.
Agwyn’s face turned redder by the second. The hamster was indignant. Lilian knocked on her head again without paying the snarling little girl any heed.
“You don’t get to be mad! Everyone should point at you laughing their bottoms off. I should call an all-Earthloch gathering just to ridicule you for being so thoughtless. Just imagining the outcome if the situation continued unbeknownst to all of us as is, disc be blessed…. When young Ysbail told me you always mess around with the prince and don’t concentrate on cultivation during Tudor’s classes, I first didn’t believe it. But now.”
“Ysbail, that snitch!”
“That is no way to address your cousin!” The third knock to the head, and the princess finally covered her noggin with a distressed look.
“She did you right. Do you know what happens when the Totemic Soul overflows? Do you know why Earthloch scions are forbidden from entering the Earthen realm before the age of ten? If we hadn’t scried your soul today, then who knows what the future could’ve been! You need punishment, you, you infuriating little creature!”
Indeed, because of some suspicions of her part, the Grand Shamanka had performed a particular ritual on the two kids today. It was a safe magic but quite invasive. It had taken a good while to prepare after the upheaval with the Swampling’s curse. Despite everyone else’s objections, Lilian was adamant about finding answers.
This invention of the ‘fishing pole’ she had been informed about today was all the more reason. As one of the clan leaders, she had to confirm any and all incongruities with the two successors’ souls before any actual harm could be done.
Such misgivings were poisonous, Lilian knew. But sometimes, the hard choices fell upon those who cared the most.
So with the help of many master shamans, her own acolytes, a few rare soul mages from the shire, and the Naeman witch, Lilian set up the scrying formation.
They placed the two sleepy kids in the centre, and everything else proceeded according to plan. 
As usual, the first thing Lilian saw was the tether connecting the two’s totemic souls. Elrhain’s was quite dim. Maybe a hundred-odd ignited? Two hundred at most.
As for Agwyn…
The moment Lilian saw it, she was so horrified her vision was almost jerked out of the astral plane. 
Nearly all the nodes in the little girl’s totemic soul, from the most frequent violet coloured ones to the rarest black blue, every node brimmed with manna on the verge of augmenting.
It wouldn’t be a problem for anyone else, as the process would halt there without an ichor. But this fool of a royal dunce had literally a hundred thousand ichoric legacies hidden inside her body. Even poking her waist at the right angle might be enough for the girl to subconsciously inject a random ichor into her ichoric heart chamber.
Lilian was scared silly. Agwyn was only three. A peak Earthen toddler!
Then she felt a rage like no other she had felt in the last few decades rising from within. Agwyn, that stupid girl, had kept this a secret!
For the next hour, Lilian continued probing for any abnormalities in the two connected souls while holding her anger at bay from interfering with her present work. She would put a seal on Agwyn’s ichors later when her investigations were done.
The esoteric arts of the Naeman Witch were certainly helpful in speeding up the process.
She caught a few details all the previous scrying had failed to discover. 
An odd light that blinked on and off branching into the distance like a snake of manna. Far out in the same direction behind the horizon of the Astral plane and outside the Astral Boundary, there seemed to be an enormous spherical form. Like a dark moon looming only as a silhouette, it floated in and out of the shadows of the Astral clouds. Dead, but real. Like an opened eye of a blind Giant.





Chapter 65 – Sneaking, Dreaming

Lilian came back to reality with mixed feelings. The discoveries were undoubtedly worrying. But there was nothing to be done now. At least, not for this particular problem.
As for the overflowing nodes…
She glanced at the two kids. Their hair was fuzzed up like the fur of a Lynxmean, the felines of thunder. An after-effect of the lightning manna of the formation no doubt.
The princess menacingly glared at Witch Alorakana, baring her sharp fangs. The Naeman witch grinned back with her fiendish getup, a lock of leafy hair in her long-nailed fingers.
The Grand Shamanka could not help but exhale deeply.
‘The aspect of the soul matches that of the body.’
Further treatment or auguries would have to wait. In regular times, the treasured materials required for such high-grade rituals would cost Earthloch an arm and a leg if they chose to trade them from other clans.
But fortunately, with the collapse, they should spawn on their own in the many manna-riogh’s of the North within three to five cycles, judging by the records of past collapses. Until then, the two kids had to constantly be placed within earshot.
Not even she could foresee the repercussions if the princess and prince augmented their souls with ichors as things stood now. There were too many unknown variables.
And yet, and yet.
‘This… mindless buffoon! Like mother like daughter.’ Lilian fumed within, immediately blaming it all on the numb-sculled Faediaga Eldress and her equally brain-dead husband. A match made in heaven if there was one. It’s why Lilian never explicitly approved their marriage in the first place.
Lilian had already made up her mind as the ritual formation lost its light. Agwyn’s immediate family would never, ever, have the heart to reprimand her. They treated her like half their souls. They spoiled her like an ancestor.
It would be up to her, the calm-headed Auntie Lilian, to set things straight. So here they were back in the present.
Supper was already over. 
The two dumplings had been kneeling on their pudgy legs for the last ten minutes.
A gallery of heartbroken half-wits wiped their tears at the side.
“They need this so the lesson will stick,” Lilian growled at them. Then turned her sharp glare toward the children.
“…. Why do I have to kneel too….” Elrhain muttered.
“N-No one loves me anymore.” Agwyn sobbed. But Lilian knew crocodile tears when she saw them.
“Quiet. You two will marry in the future.” Lilian saw Agwyn’s distressed eyes light up in delight for just a second before she went back to moping. Indeed, this girl might be a lost cause for more serious intellectual matters, but she was unquestionably an actor.
“If you don’t learn to share woes now, when will you?” Lilian said. She looked at a pale blue leaf burning in a small clay pot by the firepit. The ashes had piled up into a beautiful dusty mountain, and little of the leaf was left yet unburnt. 
Bromwyn kept pointing at her and then the leaf. The big guy was a shame to the name of Siorrakt if Lilian had ever seen one! Not to mention the killing intent she was feeling from Cyra.
“Ah, fine, I get it. You two can get up now. Anything more, and I will be too frightened to go to sleep in the coming days. Both your mothers look like the last guardian of death aspected manna-rioghs.” Lilian acquiesced.
“Yay~” The little girl threw away the gloom and ran to her family. “Does everyone love Annie again?”
What followed was half an hour's worth of coddling, confessions, begging for a second chance and every other drama even a drunk storyteller could not conjure up.
Lilian was speechless. She wanted to leave this nauseating place, but a tiny hand tugged her shawl.
“I-Is Auntie L-Lilian still mad at me?” It was Agwyn.
Lilian rolled her eyes, then kneeled down, opening her arms wide. Agwyn cheered, jumping into her embrace like a gossamer cloud.
“Silly girl.” She replied. “I wasn’t mad. I was concerned! You can’t keep secrets like this anymore, okay? You two are special. And you are brilliant. Unlike Cati, Ysbail and Jesta, it's not like you to neglect something as important as your Cultivation base. If something happens, what do you think your uncle Tudor will feel? Will he not fault himself for not emphasizing the matter enough?”
“S-Sorry…. I won’t keep bad secrets…” the little girl whimpered.
Lilian was about to speak again, but Agwyn suddenly cupped Lilian’s cheeks and peered straight into her eyes.
Lilac pupils like a disc of amethyst. Worry, doubt, conviction. There was something more there, and Lilian didn’t know what it was.
Agwyn let go, then scuttled to Elrhain and whispered something in his ears. Because of her high cultivation, the words reached Lilian’s ears too. But they were strange and slurped. Lilian understood the individual words, but when put together, they made no sense.
A few moments later, Agwyn returned and brought her mouth closer to her ears.
“C-Can you keep a secret?” She asked.
“…. Gwyn?”
“U-umm, I asked Ellie, and he said OKAY. T-There’s something. En, a secret? Y-You told me not to keep. You won’t get mad?”
Lilian didn’t reply. She made eye contact with Thundham. The old man had a solemn look on his face as he nodded. Cyra, Bromwyn, and the other two looked worried, but they didn’t defy the Grand Elder’s command.
Lilian turned towards Agwyn and asked, “Why don’t you share it with everybody else too?”
“Ah, shhhhh!” Agwyn put her palms on Lilian’s mouth and peeked back towards her parents. She judged the adults didn’t overhear, then whispered with even a quieter voice. “I-I don’t want mommy to get mad so soon after we all made up!”
“So it’s fine if it's me?”
“Well, Auntie Lilian looks like she loves to get mad every time I see her.”
Lilian choked, resolutely ignoring the snickers coming from the half-wits. She then booped Agwyn’s nose in revenge. 
‘Huh? That felt nice. No wonder Eldress Cyra does it all the time.’ She booped again.
Agwyn preened, revelling in the attention.
“Okay, tell me what you have to say. But if it’s dangerous, I might not be able to keep a secret. Wait, don’t pout. Let me finish. I promise that whatever the secret is, no one will get mad at you.”
“Really?” Agwyn held up her pinky finger.
“Of course. I am the Grand Shamanka after all. Who dares ignore my words?” Lilian didn’t disappoint the little girl, hooking her own little finger with Agwyn’s. “Now tell me. What’s this other secret?”
Agwyn squirmed for a moment, twiddled her fingers as she bit one uncut lock of her hair. She hesitated but ultimately found the nerve to open her tiny mouth again.
“Okay… so you know how mommy always tells me to never play outside after dark? And always take a gawdian, like Captain Anouk, when we go to new places?”
“Gawdian?”
“…. Guardian.”
“Yes, that should be obvious.”
“So if Annie and Ellie go out to play after falling asleep, you won’t get mad?”
“Explain.” Lilian inhaled.
“You see, after me and Ellie fall asleep, Annie poofs into this big black place with my Totemic Soul and twinkly stars, right? There’s this door there, like the shiny ones in the Elder’s rest, but I can see through them. Like orange Ice! 
And I can go to Ellie’s big black space where his Totemic Soul is after walking, um, flying? through the tunnel-hole behind the door. But inside this tunnel, there are more icy doors.” Agwyn whispered as she cupped her mouth near Lilian’s feathery ears. Every few seconds, she would turn back to see if anyone was eavesdropping.
“And you know, Annie and Ellie read a loooot of scrolls in the Archive Keeper grandpa’s cave because Ellie says reading will make Annie smarter than him. And there’s this one time I read about a disc where they have this grey sand that can turn into stone after adding water. A discwalker wrote it in her nemmnoir...I mean, me-mo-ir?
Then when Ellie and me napped that night, I pushed open one door inside the tunnel with Ellie, and suddenly, we were in that disc… I think? 
There were many dhionne in that place, and they all looked the same. They were building something really, really big with that weird sand. It didn’t look like any place in Earthloch Siorrakty like we visit all the time. So Annie thought it was the place we read in the scroll!
But you see, there’s this one time when Ellie got lost running inside another door after leaving Annie behind. Um, Ellie called it Lucid Dreaming and not normal dreaming? Anyway, he deserved it. Also, there was a big town behind the door with metal houses taller than the trees growing in our forest. The dhionne there too looked all the same. It’s like they all cut off their horns and wings and tails. It's there we saw an old dhionne grandpa making the fishing pole!
After that day, we read many scrolls in the archives, and finally, Annie found it, the place we went to after falling asleep. A discwalker mentioned in his memoir that he visited a disc long ago. The disc has only one river. The dhionne living there use ropes and sticks to trap fish! I even showed it to Archive Keeper grandpa.”
The little girl articulated. She described one place after another as her voice gradually grew louder. But she didn’t seem to notice that and continued her tales of travels.
“Ellie and I went to a place with mean-looking clouds in the sky. The dhionne who looked the same there were all cursed. But there are these other dhionne wearing bright robes that covered their faces and a beautiful lady who showed up and made a juice with salt, water, and sweet salt. Um, salt that tastes like fruit. 
I’m not lying! It looks like salt but tastes sweet. She used the juice to cure the cursed, and they were all smiling and were so happy! Annie wanted to be like that too. So I went to say hello, but no one talked back, no matter how much I tried.”
It was as if she was lost in a story she had lived herself. She described event after event and disc after disc.
Metal birds that could fly faster than sound. Giant huts larger than the whole Lochuir township. Meat that grows on metal trees and dhionne-made fish that can stay under the void seas for months.
It was all things Lilian was sure even the most delusional dreamer of Earthloch couldn’t make up. And she was also sure that Agwyn wasn’t lying.






Chapter 66 - Bait Delegation 

“Dream exploration…. Or some kind of memory scrying? Perhaps an out-of-body experience through the Astral Plane? Like the Naeman witches?” Thundham voiced his conjectures to Lilian.
It was only the two of them in the room. Cyra and Bromwyn had gone to put the kids to bed. Dofnald accompanied his wife to one of the manna-rioghs nearby.
Although the Siaglas couple were concerned, the leaders assured them that nothing would go wrong. They should focus on their own training. Eluned was halfway through to Earthen already. While this was far slower than a prodigy like Agwyn’s speed, it was impressive enough for a former servant, regardless of the employed special elixirs.
The faster the woman could ascend the realms, the better it would be for Elrhain’s status. The same would be for the main house since such progression will validate Thundham and Bromwyn’s choice of heir consort.
Thundham sipped the boiled pulp water from a coconut shell container. He refuted his own claim after reflecting for a minute. “The latter isn’t likely. Their sleeping chamber is enclosed in formations that detect intrusions or excursions of beings from the Astral Plane. Grand Shamanka, what did the Naeman witch say?”
Lilian looked out of the window as she crossed her arms and placed her index finger on her lips, tapping, “Alorakana has a theory. It pertains to memory reading like you guessed. In her accounts, something similar had happened to a witch and wizard of her clan many cycles ago.”
“Similar?”
“As in, revelations of unknown knowledge in the form of dreams. Her guess is persuasive in my opinion. What if an old Beyonder monster in death’s door actually wanted to occupy one of the two kids’ bodies? According to Alorakana, the Beyonder would most likely perish in the process no matter how powerful it was before.”
Thundham asked with a raised brow, “Because of their Tethered Totemic Souls?”
Lilian nodded, the moonlight shining on her face revealing mirth. “The Beyonder was probably gravely injured or only had its soul remaining if it even considered stealing another’s body. If this assumption is accurate, then too bad that it had to choose Gwyn or Rhain. Imagine the Beyonder’s shock when it saw its soul being ripped apart in two directions the moment it carried out its last folly. 
Besides, such a Beyonder would have travelled to many discs in life, as most Beyonders do searching for new paths to power. Like elder brother Lightlaonn, your eldest uncle. 
With this hostile Beyonder’s soul now fatally rendered apart, it wouldn’t be strange to leave behind a vault of lifeless memories for the kids to explore.”
It was as if the air had frozen over. Thundham noticed it immediately and covered his weary face with a palm, apologizing.
“Don’t take it too hard. It is just one speculation without any evidence. Even if it’s true, I didn’t notice it either, so the blame isn’t yours alone. And the Beyonder had received its just retribution, even leaving behind a treasure trove for both the kids and our clan. For now, we have to keep casting auguries on them regularly regardless of cost, so no remnant souls or foreign influence can remain hidden.”
“I will leave that to you.”
Lilian smiled, thudding the stone floor with her staff. “You, on the other hand, need to deal with the whole fishing pole situation fast. I’d reckon it won’t be two days before the whole Siorrakty flips upside down. Most nobles aren’t as dumb as they look either. They should know whose feet they really have to kiss come tomorrow. Ahaha.”
This time, it was Thundham who looked out of the window with an exasperated face.
***
“Grand Elder!” The door of the Grand Hall flung wide with a peppy young maiden bouncing in, her heart-shaped face filled with a million other emotions Elrhain had no mind to even pretend to care about. 
He had bigger problems. Like Agwyn who for some reason, had the sudden inspiration to do his hair today during their weekly quality time with grandpa. 
Elrhain realized, bone combs could also be torture tools!
“What is it, Reanakt Saphur? And…. Caelusius, Ursan, Logison, Olbert, and the rest of you.”
The peppy young maiden was no longer smiling today. There seemed to be a shadow of uncertainty on her Grecian nose. “I apologize for the abrupt intrusion. There is something we would like to request the main house.”
“…. Is it about the fishing pole?” Thundham sighed.
Saphur and everyone else standing behind her nodded vehemently, “Please grant us permission to make use of this secret technique, my lord!”
“S-secret technique?” Elrhain asked with one eyebrow twitching. He then stated with indignation, “A fishing pole is no such thing! Also, couldn’t you just ask the Haragol people to teach you? There is nothing secret about it.”
Saphur shook her head. “How could we? Us Earthloch nobles are many things, but we aren’t thieves. It would dishonour our ancestors if we used such a miraculous device without the creator's express permission. The punishment for stealing techniques is harsh in our clan.”
She then bowed to the toddler, “Please grant us permission, prince Elrhain.”
Elrhain was taken aback. Thinking about it, Saphur’s words certainly made sense. Secret techniques in the clan included how to forge or refine magical artefacts and elixirs, ways to shoot mega fireballs and how to turn their own body into a self-sustaining combustion engine.
Elrhain could see how crafting a fishing pole could be incorporated into those ranks. He glanced up at Thundham, only to see the old man shrug.
“A-Alright then.” Said Elrhain.
The nobles cheered.
“But there is a price!”
Their faces turned serious.
“This is a technique that can assuage the hunger, and hence, miseries of every servant in our respective houses. We will pay any price you deem fit for such privilege.” One noble, a middle-aged man with a throat that expanded and croaked like a frog, affirmed for everyone. He was Reanakt Caelusius, and he had crooked eyes that were quite unnerving.
Elrhain just waved his hand. Behind him, Agwyn let out a frustrated groan as she failed again to keep Elrhain’s unruly hair straight.
“I made the fishing pole in the Haragol village hastily without thorough preparations. I, no, we merely used what was available on hand. But I am confident that the design can be improved upon greatly. In return for allowing you permission, I want every noble here to work on improving that design in their own way.” Said Elrhain.
His audience cocked their heads. The bearlike Ursan, one of Sonora’s fish-loving goons, had the gal to yawn, only to be kicked in his paw-like legs by an irate Saphur. “W-What? I got sleepy cause the toddler lord kept using difficult words.”
Elrhain shook the image of a dainty fake-mermaid kicking a bear who accidentally fished her out of the ocean away from his meandering mind. Also, toddler lord? How dare he!
Elrhain grit his teeth as he continued. “We used Zakky vines for the fishing line. But in one try out of every four or five, a gheist would eat the vine itself along with the bait, and we had to repair it. Aren’t there any materials that can work out that weakness?”
Saphur answered with a thoughtful expression. “There’s the thread-like fur from the Orgabeasts. It is a common gheist spawned by one of the manna-riogh’s near my village. The threads are stronger than bones of common gheists and definitely more robust than Zakky vines.”
Caelusius added with a croak, “Also the fibre from Houal Flower stems. While rarer than Zakky vines, they will last longer with their magical aspect, which grants them resilience to being cut. The hunters of my village craft them into their armours.”
Elrhain smiled hearing these answers. “Then you should make the fishing lines using them and not blindly use Zakky vines. The shaft, hook, float, and even bait can be changed to things more competent at their tasks. Also, can alchemical refinements and magic formations play any roles like they do with your fishing boats? 
The possibilities are endless. Imagine each of your villages a cycle or two from now, with your own unique shape and make of fishing poles. Heck, why even limit the fishing pole to a rope-stick shape?
Could you tie many fishing lines to one pole and make it work? How about simply tying the line to a tree near the lakeshore? You could also change the shape of the hook or think of which type of bait attracts which gheists and continue from there.
This is the price. Improve my discovery, and share the results with the main house every few seasons. I say this not only for you but for all noble houses of my Siorrakty. Share what I told you with everyone as soon as you can after you go back, okay?”
There was a collective gasp. Saphur seemed to be faster in processing Elrhain’s words as she excitedly chirped, “L-Like a tournament? Is this a great bout that will span generations?”
“Could be.” Elrhain rubbed his chin. “This fishing pole is simple yet complex. There might be a secret hidden there. Why can it do the things that it can? Finding that will not only aid you folks but the whole Earthloch population in the long run. Am I clear?”
The nobles gulped, nodding in unison. They said their gratitude like nervous baby birds, then scampered out of the Grand Hall.
Elrhain could hear arguments, challenges, and counter challenges ringing from outside in their wake. Each side declared they would be the ones to create the ultimate form and master the ultimate way of the fishing poles. Followed by the bubbly yet competitive Reanakt Saphur shouting fairy tale-esque expletives that could make evil dragons blush.
The petite prince rolled his eyes, then caught Thundham looking at him incredulously.
“W-What?”
“I have heard the phrase, killing two birds with one stone. How many birds, no, fish was that?”
Elrhain grinned, “Who knows? Maybe three, maybe a hundred. Grandpa should learn another phrase, Hook, line, and sinker!”
Thundham went quiet, trying to decipher the meaning of that utterance.
“Hook your stupid-arse hair is what it is. Ellie, we need hair pomade!” Agwyn snorted from behind as she threw away the bone comb across the hall in annoyance.






Chapter 67 - Days of Dreams

By the time the first ashen leaves of Ashfall fell on the disc under soothing grey winds, the population of Earthloch had exploded in many different ways.
First, literally. 
The four Palaikts of Earthloch’s outlying circle had finally arrived with another massive inflow of dhionne. The raucous around the Lochuir area multiplied by many folds as Agwyn had to bury her ears with pillows to fall asleep. As far as mount Earthloch was from the drifting lines of incoming immigrants, the commotion had little trouble irritating those who needed their beauty sleep.
Not only that, even the out-tribals, folks who didn’t legitimately serve the Earthloch clan but dwelled within its borders, showed up in hordes. The ones to lead this ragtag lot were many groups of independent disc-walker teams and mercenary hunters. 
Most nobles were not impressed and had colourful things to say. But the Grand Elder welcomed them with open arms.
There were, of course, scuffles here and there, and a lot of prejudice from the native inhabitants of the Siorrakty. Yet the leaders on both sides tried their best to keep any conflict from escalating.
It helped that the de facto chief of the out-tribals, a newly ascended sky realmer and the head of a disc-walker team no weaker than any of the Eight loch Palaikts of Earthloch, was there to both preserve peace and deter any wrongful actions.
The newcomers soon settled down in the numerous peaks and canyons, estuaries and lakeshores of Lochuir. After a period, they turned into a familiar sight as the kids got used to them. 
Lilian said that there would still be about seventy thousand more to come within the end of the next season. The total number of dhionne would cross three hundred thousand, fifty thousand higher than her initial estimation.
The out-tribals alone will number equal to that extra headcount. Meaning Lilian’s estimate was actually correct if Elrhain discounted the out-tribal population.
If this was a few months ago, the three leaders and all the nobles would have been ripping their hair-fur-leaves out thinking how to accommodate all these extra mouths. The collapse was barely in its first cycle; the gheistrum spawning rate was far below the numbers necessary to sustain so many.
Which led to the second figurative case. 
After the day Saphur visited the two kids and obtained approval to use and propagate fishing poles, it was as if a hyper-sonic blast had rocked the souls of all Earthloch dhionne, noble or not alike.
It took less than two days for word to reach every settlement. A day after that, Thundham convened another meeting between all nobles. This included the nay-saying East and West Lake bunches too to officiate fishing with poles as a duty for the servants.
This time, Thundham repeated Elrhain’s conditions to the masses, the boy himself too miffed to even attend the talks. 
Elrhain himself spent that day riding a Gurumba, a flying gheist with a horse’s head and eagle’s body, with Agwyn and Cyra.
Everything progressed at the speed of light after the talks. Before the month was over, most of Earthloch’s food problems, at least regarding servants, had been resolved. It also wasn’t long before many bizarre, practical and not designs of the much-worshipped fishing pole made their way to the Earthloch archives.
It was just like back on Earth, where lakes like Nasser and Tonle Sap could sustain populations in the tens of millions even after the dark ages of the mid-second millennia. The large lakes here such as Loch Sagathan too had an incredible bounty. The smaller ones were nothing to scoff at either.
The dhionne servants, from the squeaky young to the grizzled elderly, now had five times their previous drive to flourish. They went about their days scheming to bite into the haughty mortal gheists that had eluded them for generations as the opportunity opened up along with Elrhain’s ‘Sagely’ technological breakthrough.
In every settlement and in every family dinner of every mortal home, the talk was dominated by the little princeliness of the main house and his marvelous creation.
“First the princess cured the Swampling’s curse. My old mother drank that salt-honey water for a few days, and now she’s fishin’ with my son till night break. She hit me with a cane when I told her to take it easy!”
“Aye. My seven cycle old daughter brought home a Crocofish hatchling tonight. I don’t remember the last time we servant folks could eat meat every day of the week. I doubt even our fathers and the ones before them had the chance.”
Before this, from hearsay and rumours, most of the servants and freemen had merely heard how talentless the prince was. One unknown spirit barely blessed him at the very end of the Night of Blessings, which contrasted ridiculously with the near one hundred thousand of the princess’s. 
Everyone also knew that Elrhain’s Siaglas family were former servants.
It would be a lie to say there was no discontent. To the rest of Earthloch’s mortals who did not enjoy a sudden golden pie falling down on their laps from the heavens, it was through and through unfair, even if the words in their hearts were unvoiced.
But the advent of the fishing pole completely flipped that perception on its head.
Most mortal dhionne only wanted to eat good food, rest a deep relaxing sleep at night, and spend a few moments of meaningful time with their family during meals.
The nobles granted them responsibility and security. While they were both essential for survival in this unkind world, they had long grown desensitized to it. Every day was the same, and again things changed for the worse with the collapse.
Most didn’t hope for ascension like the cultivators. The grandiose dreams of the mighty were not even as important as an over-ripe Cloudberry they could pick up from the muddy ground.
But this, the fishing pole. This was the first time in the servants’ lives that the nobles, the main house specifically, had accorded them a tangible means to hold part of their fate in their own hands. 
Right now they too were hunters. Whereas before they could only have one portion of manna-rich gheist meat one or two times a month, now they could eat it three times a day every day in the season.
As for manna? Well, mortal gheists were undeniably a weak source of nourishment and manna for Earthen and up cultivators. But for mortal servants and freemen, it was more than enough. In fact, it was easier to digest and refine mortal level manna with the shoddy cultivation methods mortals practised than anything higher.
And quantity, after a definite threshold, could also become quality. 
The nourishment and manna a servant child could now get after eating lake-catch for every meal far outstripped the paltry sum of Earthen-manna he could barely cultivate with one small gheist meat meal one or two times a month.
It didn’t take long before word of one breakthrough after another reached Elrhain’s ears. Dhionne who were stuck at peak mortal because of insufficient manna gorged themselves with the sudden bonanza of manna-filled food. After that, it was purely a matter of their master houses bestowing them with ichors.
Before, the master houses overlooked them during resource distributions, as their talent wasn’t worthy of the investments of high-manna foodstuff. But they now took care of the food themselves. At the same time, the nobles could plentifully replenish ichors in the near future of the collapse.
No noble house would be unwise enough to not build up their cultivator ranks.
“As expected of the three leaders! They must’ve known that his princeliness Elrhain was a saint reborn.”
“Hahaha! This old servant swears on the lake and clouds to serve the Earthloch Siorrakty and the Prince Consort until my bones are ground to dirt. For if not for the prince’s generosity, I would have been stuck in the mortal realms even in death.”
These developments also positively affected the out-tribals. Some of them initially learnt the craft of fishing poles from a few of their friendlier Earthloch neighbours, which then spread like a virus among their communities.
This solved most of their food worries. According to Thundham, this was presumably one of the key factors why the re-settlement of the out-tribals was progressing so smoothly.
Besides recognition and daily doses of noble fawning, Elrhain and Agwyn’s daily lives also changed significantly.
They now had to be scried every other day in tingly magic rituals. 
The usually calm uncle next door, master Shaman Tudor, was likewise incensed like no other. His face after learning of Agwyn’s condition was truly a sight to behold. The short man scolded her for her neglect weeks on end until the little bun’s ears turned purple. He also cruelly increased both their cultivation loads ten times over. 
For Agwyn, that was honing her already ignited nodes with even further concentrated, potent manna.
For Elrhain, he now consumed so many elixirs a day that any sane health expert back on earth would have keeled over at the mere mention. Doping was evidently an accepted practice when it came to enhancing the performances of important toddlers in Fanas Diosca.
It didn’t take long for the two to get bored out of their minds. They now spent 50% of their time awake sitting on a glowing voodoo rock chanting mysterious magic words, meditating under the stern gaze of an angry dwarf.
Lilian had forbidden them from speaking about the things they saw in their ‘lucid dreams’ willy-nilly too. Elrhain also lost most of his drive to be the Father of Civilization after being pestered day in and out by every blue-blooded noble prick on Earthloch. He put an indefinite pause in actualizing other Earth technology, favouring more immediate short-term dopamine spikes.
It was a habit from his investor days. The boy could become lost in trivial entertainment for months without accomplishing a single task. But his concentration broke like a flock of spooked rabbits the moment something important cropped up.
Adult Alex Fischer could still push through even if there was no enthusiasm. He was an influential ex-scientist and venture capitalist after all. He had obligations and principles.
Toddler Elrhain couldn’t be bothered.
He and Agwyn had agreed to try to live this life slowly and peacefully, as much as possible. Cultivation drained their mental fuel too much, sapping any other motivation they had for problem solving. 
Both of them were yet undoubtedly confused about what exactly they wished to even do in the future. 
For now, quietly spending the long days mindlessly playing with their friends and family sounded like a fantastic idea. Dhionne had long lives, and cultivators lived even longer. 
Besides, there were no urgent matters like the Swampling’s Curse popping up, which they had no moral choice but to intervene in. The clan could handle other issues pertaining to the collapse well enough.
So the decision was unanimous that happiness triumphed obligations, fun won over principles. At least for now. 
And to the two, that happiness might mean messing around with Ysbail in their free time and going on one-sidedly romantic dates when Cadfael wasn’t looking.
Before they knew it, Ashfall had also passed with Equinox right around the corner. It wasn’t until the first actual threat to their lives that Elrhain and Agwyn re-found their motivation.






Chapter 68 – Shift and Attack

The Out-tribals settled in the outskirts of Lochuir. Not directly by the borders of the inner and outer circles, but about an hour or two Alleigh-ride away compared to native Earthlochian villages.
"Can’t they live any closer to the township?” Elrhain Asked. He pointed at the few lake-side cliff-hanging villages. They were strewn about unplanned, and he couldn’t see where one village ended and another began.
But the village centres were easy to spot. Bustling cores of areas in that mess of dhionne huts, where children from various groups of out-tribals and freemen tribes played. 
The womenfolk looked after the young while weaving clothes or carving shells. The Elderly scoured the nearby mountains for edible plants and roots.
Most mortal men gathered by the lakes, fishing poles in hand. They hunted gheists from crabs to fish. Every so often, Elrhain could hear cheers.
Today, only captain Anouk accompanied the two. Ysbail had an awful toothache, and Cati couldn’t bear to leave her best friend alone.
“The nobles won’t allow it, especially Palaikt Sonora’s people.” Captain Anouk replied with a sigh. 
He raised a hand and Alleigh trotted to a stop near the cliff trail heading to the nearest village entrance.
Two shadows materialized before them, casting a dark silhouette on the ground.
“Halt!” The left one shouted, a midget of a man with purple skin. “Who are you? Why do you bring a gheist to our village?”
The second man remained silent. But Elrhain could see him perspiring.
Anouk went forward and introduced himself. He then pressed with a stern expression, “The prince and princess want to visit your village, and under the three leaders’ orders, their wants will be met. Where are the Out-tribal leaders of the settlements by the Seven Pearl Lakes? Bring them to me with haste!”
A heavy aura enveloped captain Anouk, demonstrating his Oceanic cultivation. The mild-mannered man transformed into a beast who only took yes for answers.
The two men shuddered. They may have similar shadow powers like Cadfael, but their mastery paled in comparison judging by how their form kept flickering under Anouk’s stare. 
The out-tribal guards stammered a few words and left as quickly as they came, agreeing to relay the matter to their leaders.
Agwyn tugged Elrhain’s sleeves. 「Uncle Anouk looks funny.」
「He has to act tough as our bodyguard. Don’t make fun of him… But I agree, it’s like forcing an e-sports gamer to dance on TV.」
Agwyn giggled. She put a tiny floral crown on Elrhain’s head. The princess had learnt this craft from Eluned recently. It was a fun pastime. 
Agwyn said it was more meditative than actual meditation, and she didn’t get sore butts from perching on glowing rocks all day.
Anouk who kept vigil as he awaited the return of the Out-tribal men, all of a sudden looked up. He lurched his gaze across the few settlements by the smaller lakes, muttering, “Something’s not right.”
Elrhain cocked his head, and the floral crown almost slipped off. “What isn’t?”
“The air. There’s…. something familiar in the flow of manna here that reminds me of a—"
Before he could finish, he was interrupted by a deafening roar akin to an explosion. 
All the sounds of nature stopped in unison, including the crick of critters and chirps of the birds. Replacing it was a cacophony of howls and screeches.
“W-What?” Agwyn hugged Elrhain’s arms for balance as Alleigh jolted up. The red Pengyte growled, spooked by the abrupt incursion of the threat.
“This is bad,” Anouk yelled, “It’s a gheistrum outbreak. A manna-riogh must’ve overflowed!”
No sooner had he finished, part of the Seven Pearl Lakes blasted up into water sprouts by the shoreline. The serene picture of the lake-side villages shattered in the blink of an eye. 
A legion of gheistrums, vengeful and malicious, stormed out of the lake before pouncing on the dhionne like hungry scourges.
The villagers were first shocked. But the men soon fought their fear away and evacuated the shore in a practised motion. Amidst the roars and the cries of both gheist and dhionne, a battle for life commenced.
Mortals filled their bodies with manna, more frenzied than the gheistrums themselves. They may not be qualified cultivators, but their zeal to protect their family more than made up for it.
Elrhain and Agwyn watched the carnage unfold with mouths agape. The prince’s eyes ached as he shared his vision, not even knowing how to respond to such a sudden shift in the situation. 
But what flustered them more than the army of gheists was how quickly the Out-tribals reacted to death. 
It was as if fighting to stay alive was a daily matter.
“Why so suddenly…?” Agwyn muttered, her face pale. Elrhain couldn’t answer. He took out an amulet and pressed the blue gem etched in the middle.
A barrier of blue light materialized around Alleigh, tinting the clash outside in an indigo hue.
Alleigh growled, turning his snout towards East where the closest shoreline met the lake water. 
“There’s more.” Said Anouk, readying his Totem daggers. “Prince Elrhain, if I am to fall, order Alleigh to retreat immediately?”
Elrhain gulped, then nodded. His superhuman ears picked up the hidden tremors this time. 
The water quaked; the air thumped.
“CHIIIIIIIITTTTTTT!!!!!”
A blast of mist and a second swarm of gheistrums crawled out from below the sandy lake beach. This time, Elrhain’s group was the target of the many bloodshot eyes.
The gheists looked like a cross between a crab and a centipede. Long bodies slithering on the shore, leaving trails of fist-sized holes from their insectoid legs with multiple claws jutting out beneath their serrated mandibles.
“Chitttt!!!!!!!!”
Anouk clicked his tongue, relaxing. “Earthen Kiklas. Good.”
His daggers shone blue and crimson. He dropped into a sprinter’s stance, then bolted up. Gripping the bone daggers backhand, Anouk pierced the Kikla leading the swarm right in the middle of its eight eyes.
“Chitt—!” 
His right hand bore into the gheist’s exoskeleton like a pile-driver. But it didn’t stop there. A ray of crimson light went out the other end of the gheist like an arrow and pierced three more Kiklas crawling behind.
Anouk kicked the dead gheist’s forehead and dodged the tail swipe of another. He threw the blue dagger behind him. The shooting star of death took out four other Kiklas that had somehow crept near Alleigh.
When the blue dagger pierced through its last victim, Anouk’s hand was already holding its grip again as if the man had teleported to the weapon.
“H-Help him!” Said Agwyn. “Awweigh! We gotta end the battle here fast and help the Out-tribals!”
Elrhain didn’t refute her. He pushed the gem in the middle of the amulet two more times, then patted Alleigh’s head.
The barrier retracted until it contoured the two kids like clothes. This was the battle mode, where it wouldn’t hinder the Red Pengyte’s movements.
Alleigh growled, baring his shard-like fangs. The giant husky rushed forwards in a storm of red and black.
“Prince?” Anouk cleaved another Kikla apart. Elrhain yelled their intentions to the man while Alleigh bulldozer’d through the Kiklas like a boulder crushing all in its path rolling down a cliff.
The watch captain muttered, “It can’t be helped.” He held the two daggers in front of his body in a cross shape as he squatted down.
“[Gore-break Fangs]!”
One second, there was only one man. A hundred afterimages leapt forward the next, leaving behind palm-sized stabs in half the remaining Kiklas’ heads, ending their miserable existences instantly.
“Arf!” Alleigh crushed another Kikla with red glowing mandibles as it tried to chomp down from above.
The Pengyte raised his head towards the midday sun. Particles of manna gathered in his mouth, concentrating to the extreme.
“Hoooowl!” A line of manna like a laser beam careened out, ripping apart a row of Kiklas in half.
“A death ray!” Agwyn cheered with pumped fists.
Elrhain joined her too. But out of the edge of his vision, his hyper-sight glimpsed a trailblazing shadow shaped like a spear streaking their way faster than his thoughts could register the danger.
“Watch out!” 
His warning came too slow. The object hit Alleigh’s side like a mortar.
“Kyaa!” Agwyn screamed as the spear impact blasted Alleigh tens of meters, dragging a long line in the sand. 
Elrhain held onto Agwyn’s waist from behind. He felt the floral crown dropping as they both tumbled, but the barrier absorbed all the aftershock. They were dazed but uninjured. 
According to Cyra, this was a talisman crafted with the power of three Sky realm elites. Any attack below the full-powered strike of a mid-sky realmer could not destroy it instantly.
“Who dares?!” Through the screen of dust and Alleigh’s pained whimpers, Elrhain heard the angry voice of Anouk.
The boy grappled, his hand touching sand when he tried to support his body.
“E-Ellie, it hurts.” Agwyn cried from above. Elrhain had cushioned her fall, but all the rolling around left them both disoriented. “A-Alleigh, is Alleigh okay?”
Elrhain stood up, ignoring his throbbing legs. But before he could step towards the prone form of the Red Pengyte, Alleigh hollered in fury as if to drown out his pain.
“ROOOOOOOOOOOAAAAAAR!”
The massive red form vaulted out of the sand-filled cloud like a missile, blowing away the screen of dust.
When Elrhain opened his eyes again, he saw Alleigh’s massive red paw smash a woman clad in archaic full-body armour with a sickening crunch.








Chapter 69 – Second Beat Back Home

“Ugh!” the woman in white cried as she crashed onto the ground, the sand her around rising in a crater.
Anouk didn’t miss the chance. The watch captain ignored his bleeding right hand and threw the dagger into the centre of the crater with a sonic boom.
The woman blocked with her gauntlet, but the dagger cleaved straight through and pierced her chest.
No!
It was an afterimage!
The next moment, she blinked behind Anouk while slashing down a sabre of flames, only to be hit by Alleigh’s death ray in the flank.
“Cursed mutt!” She screamed, coughing blood and chunks of flesh. The tree she had used to break her fall toppled over. 
The woman rolled to the side, dodging Anouk’s dagger again and then took the chance to create distance.
“I will cleave you in half, filthy assassin!” Anouk bellowed with a rasping voice. 
The woman spat; her visage calm. She turned her eyes towards Elrhain even while fighting two versus one. 
White hair, white eyes, white skin like the wings of a dove. But Elrhain could only see death there. An intent to kill him and Agwyn by hook or by crook.
The boy trembled, but Agwyn covered his sight with her body, “D-Don’t look.”
Alleigh’s roars, Anouk’s shouts, and the curses of the woman in white. They rang for what felt like hours, or maybe it was only five minutes.
When the dust settled and all the remaining Kiklas were dead because of the Oceanic grade battle, Agwyn plopped on her butt, releasing a breath she didn’t notice she held.
She lifted her arm, tired. Elrhain pulled her up as his slit eyes reflected the bloody figures of Anouk and Alleigh. The Pengyte limped behind with a spear stuck to his right foreleg.
“She got away. My apologies.” Anouk bowed.
Elrhain fumbled as he took out another talisman from his pocket. It was a crystal shard that looked like indigo glass.
“M-Mommy gave this. Alleigh, injured. Healing.” The words refused to come out of his mouth right.
Anouk bowed again, then took the shard. He crushed it and a fog of icy blue covered both him and Alleigh.
It took a few minutes for the healing to abate. The wounds didn’t recover completely, but it was better. The large gash running down Anouk’s side stopped bleeding while the spear wound on Alleigh had closed, the spear plopping to the sandy ground. But the burnt fur patches on the husky’s body remained.
Elrhain slapped his cheeks hard. “The Out-tribals, can you help?”
Anouk clenched and opened his fists as if gauging his remaining strength. He nodded.
Elrhain tugged Agwyn’s sleeve, not knowing how to console her. The little girl had tears streaking down her eyes as she caressed a wound on Alleigh’s droopy face.
They climbed onto the Pengyte’s back. 
The barrier contoured their body even now. Agwyn, calmer, held a rune carved twig about three inches long. She crossed her eyes with Elrhain’s, then snapped the stick in half.
A luminescent bird of blue and green flew out of the crack, zooming into the horizon towards mount Earthloch. They should have done it the moment Anouk had sensed danger. Alas, it had utterly slipped their panicked minds.
“Go. We’ll wrap this up before the slug woman and big guy gets here.”
***
When the asura-faced Cyra and Bromwyn arrived blazing with manna, the battle had just about finished.
Alleigh and Anouk culled the gheistrums like leeks. The enemies were mostly Kiklas, with a few higher-order variants. 
There was one type far bulkier, with an exoskeleton filled with poisonous spikes. Another had scythe-bladed mandibles half their body length jutting out like scissors. While the most troublesome ones had magical acid breaths.
It took only ten of these monsters to reduce half of the settlement by the lakeside to ruins before Anouk and Alleigh arrived.
A few men worked to remove the broken walls and smashed roofs from a rubble pile. They dragged an aged woman from underneath.
Elrhain was sure life had already left her.
Agwyn sat beside him on a sandy rock. She had been silent for the last half an hour, staring at the dhionne with a complicated gaze.
Despite the casualties, the dhionne seemed thankful. That two Oceanic realmers had come to their aid. 
Elrhain spotted the two men they met before the gheistrum outbreak. One had his arm wrapped in leafy bandages. The shorter one looked fine.
A group of around thirty dhionne, cultivators, kowtowed to Bromwyn as they reported their losses. Anouk too recounted the battle with the woman in white.
Cyra picked Elrhain up, snapping him awake from brooding, “It’s been a long day. Let’s go back.”
He could only nod, pretending not to notice the chill in her voice. Anouk and Bromwyn would remain here. For further investigations no doubt.
So would Alleigh. The husky’s injuries were severe, even though he looked fine from the outside. Cyra promised to send a healer for the loyal husky as soon as they got back.
Agwyn kissed the husky goodbye on his cheek, then ruffled his snout for good measure. Alleigh whimpered, licking her hands.
Even in the sky, Agwyn looked back at the ravaged village.
It took about ten minutes for them to return to Mount Earthloch. Perhaps it was the unforeseen events of the day or the tragedy of the Out-tribals still flashing before his eyes. Elrhain could not soothe his thumping heart.
Everything looked bizarre in his dizzy eyes. The familiar flora in front of their courtyard, the flowers he planted with Agwyn, and the tweets of the seasonal birds he had grown so used to.
His eyes would see one thing, but his mind another.
Elrhain put one foot on the stairs before the low-inclined trail that led to their home. His left hand grasped Cyra’s while Agwyn hugged his right. He looked back.
“Hmm?”
“What is it?”
Elrhain pointed at a line of servants, carrying back baskets full of foodstuff from the Lochuir township.
The day was yet young, although it felt otherwise. The dhionne, immersed in their everyday activities, did their tasks with nonchalance. But something was strange.
Elrhain spotted a few nobles, among them Onthoakt Haragol, racing up the mountain towards the grand hall at the summit.
Another group rushed downward, at their helm two Watch Captain’s Elrhain recognized. From above, teams of Watch members left on fliers. Elrhain reckoned they headed to the Out-tribal village.
But that wasn’t it. Elrhain scrutinized the faces of the servants again. In Earth years, he had been in their company for over three decades.
He knew their names and faces like the back of Agwyn’s hand.
“There are new servants?”
Cyra looked down, tilting her head. She wiped Elrhain’s sweaty forehead with the hemp of her dress and replied, “Rhain. It’s okay. No one will hurt you here.”
“No, I am serious. Who is that new guy behind Servant Korna?” Elrhain pointed at a wiry middle-aged man. He had small beady eyes and an unruly beard falling down to his chest like vines. 
The servant in question stopped the moment he noticed the prince looking at him.
Something pricked Elrhain’s eyes. He rubbed them, but the pain intensified.
“What servant? Korna is the last one.”
“One, two…. Seven. The seventh one, there. You see?”
“Rhain, there are six.”
“What? B-But?” 
Elrhain gasped. A strange pressure was squeezing down his chest. The air was heavy, like breathing mercury.
“Ellie?” Agwyn tapped his face, but his vision blurred like a mirage. One world overlapped with another in a psychedelic mix of faces. He leaned onto Cyra for support.
“Seven. Seven…. Rhain?” Cyra grazed his face with a concerned expression. She then turned towards the line of servants.
The vine-bearded man in question stopped while the six others continued to climb.
His frightened eyes crossed Elrhain’s, and the man took a slow step backwards. Green manna gathered at his bark-skinned feet.
“INTRUDER!” As if at last seeing the anomaly, Cyra screamed at the top of her lungs and encompassed the entire area with a rampaging torrent of vaporous manna.
And as the screen of blue from Cyra’s magic shielded Elrhain’s vision, the suffocating feeling vanished.
Elrhain lost his balance, but Agwyn supported him from behind.
“He’s escaping!”
Elrhain cried.
By then, the vine-bearded man had stomped on the ground with green sparks igniting on his legs. The soil under his feet opened up, and he dropped down out of their vision.
But Cyra was faster. Her domineering magic pierced through an invisible veil shrouding the area no one noticed existed. 
Instantly, the world in front of them shattered like glass.
The man reappeared a few meters away from where the hole opened. It was a mirage!
He panicked, then deflected a water missile with his sword and hurled into the forest foliage head-first.
The sudden turn of events threw the servants and the incoming nobles off their feet. But their training kicked in, similar to how the Out-tribals reacted to the gheistrum outbreak.
The servants dropped everything in their hands and evacuated the area. At the same time, the nobles raised their manna, spreading apart to encircle the vine-bearded man.
“Careful, he is a Soul mage! Mid Oceanic!” Cyra warned.
Elrhain noticed more surges of manna descending from the summit of the mountain.
Cyra squatted down to their eye level. “You are safe my babies. Father Thundham will keep his sight on you.”
Cyra’s eyes were enflamed red in wrath. Elrhain had never seen the women so angry.
She left with a gust of wind in pursuit, but her protective barrier remained. 
A few seconds later, Thundham appeared beside them like a flickering image. He picked Elrhain and Agwyn up with a sombre face and flew towards the top of the mountain. Elrhain looked over the old man’s shoulder.
He saw a dragon. 




Chapter 70 - Sparks

The dragon roared, the air around her trembling in force and fear. Cerulean water and violet mist rose around her massive form as she flew out of the mountainside, chasing after the interloper. 
Her wyvern head adorned a crown of amethyst and sapphires. Her wings glowed like shattered mirrors and her body flooded the sky in a serpentine shadow.
The vine-bearded man, now sitting on the back of a black-winged lion, threw out one magic spell after another to no avail. The tiny fireballs and miasma-spheres plopped like balloons when they made contact with the dragon’s plated scales. 
The dragon roared again. Elrhain could see the fury in her eyes. 
Manna gathered in waves around the skyspace. The dragon and the lion competed for supremacy. But in less than ten heartbeats, the former dominated the latter in sheer magnitude of violence. 
The manna swooped down in waves, as if bowing to the victor as they gave off their neon hues. The brilliant colours consolidated in spirals and settled into a colossal dome of light covering half the mountain ridge.
Elrhain saw a look of panic on the vine-bearded man’s face. The intruder and his winged mount crashed into the dome like a meteor, manna exploding in all directions. It was clear that this charge was their last-ditch effort to escape an enraged mother’s wrath.
But it was futile.
Cyra, the Faediaga Eldress of water, ice and plumes, whipped her crystalline tail faster than Elrhain’s eyes could follow and plummeted the black-winged lion into the forest.
The last thing Elrhain saw before Thundham flew out of range was the lion exploding in a shower of blood and flesh. While Cyra, now back in her dhionne-form, lifted the paralyzed and near-death vine-bearded man up by his neck.
****
「Assassins.」, Elrhain muttered. 
He looked out of the window. The raucous voices of many dhionne invaded their room from outside.
The impromptu meeting Thundham had convened raged in full storm.
Eluned cradled him and Agwyn in the dark of the night. The woman was now deeply asleep, but her closed eyes showed signs of distress. 
「Assassins.」 Agwyn echoed. 「You were right.」
「I know. Weird. I wish I wasn’t.」
「A lot of dhionne died. Do you think the gheistrum outbreak was planned too?」
「My instincts tell me it was. But how is that possible? No magic can control a manna-riogh like that. At least, according to what we learnt…」
The two fell back into silence.
「I hate being small.」 Agwyn spoke again after ten minutes. 
「Cyra was a dragon. Maybe you can turn into one too after cultivating to a higher realm?」
「How long would that take? Ten cycles? Twenty? Mommy is over three hundred! She is older than grandpa!」
Agwyn rolled over, facing Elrhain with clear lilac eyes. 「By the time I am that strong, my butt would be sore red from being a punching bag.」
「It’s not that bad. I am sure the big guy and uncle Morys will toughen the security.」
「They will make us cultivate non-stop. By usual standards, reaching the sky realm before the age of fifty is already remarkable for a supreme talent. I’m not one.」
「Sorry…」
「Why are you apologizing?」
「You already ignited all your nodes. You have to wait longer because of me…」
Agwyn scooted closer, then pecked him on the lips with a whisper. 「Dummy. I will have to wait until I am ten. So you better work hard not to waste more time, alright? 」
Elrhain bobbed his head, and the silence returned, but sleep would not come. The princeling tried counting to a hundred backwards. He meditated, controlled his breath four in seven out.
But his mind’s pesky wandering became unbearable.
「We will still lose.」
「….」
「To those people. I don’t know who they are, but would it make a difference even if I cultivate all the time? Can we stop them from hurting us, harming our subjects? It takes an unreasonable amount of time for me to light one node. It’s not like I don’t try. But manna hates me.」
「I will protect us.」
「I want to protect you too. But I can’t cultivate. That isn’t my path.」
「What are you thinking?」
Elrhain closed his eyes, then shook his head. He lay there in stifling quietness. The moonlight outside flowed in like milky manna, kissing his distraught face.
Or maybe it was Agwyn again.
「Comprehensive strength.」
Agwyn squeaked in confusion.
「That is what the fishing pole increased. These… assassins, why did they attack now? Today and not wait for a sure-hit moment? 」
Agwyn thought for a while before making a conclusion.
「Everyone thinks we are like little sages. So the enemy wants to snuff out our talents. They investigated our routine and planned an attack. But if so …. 」
Elrhain nodded. 「 It’s too sloppy! I don’t know about the vine-bearded man the slug woman took down. Maybe he was sneaking in early to set traps. His soul magic was potent enough to even fool Cyra. We are lucky that our souls are fucked up. Otherwise, I doubt I could have detected him.」
「Hey!」
「But that woman in white. Her ambush was hasty. As if she capitalized on a sudden chance. We only had Alleigh and Captain Anouk with us today, sure. We also went rather far from our regular routes, visiting the Out-tribals. But we are the clan successors. One oceanic realmer is not enough to guarantee success. 」
「That woman could have acted alone.」Agwyn said. 「And not under the command of a team. So, this was a one in a million golden opportunity for her. The vine-bearded man could be from another faction. 」
「But in that case, the question is how she could predict when the gheistrum outbreak would occur. Shamans are always on the lookout for these things. How could the Out-tribal’s not notice, but the woman in white could? One possibility is that she was the one who triggered it. 」
Agwyn clapped her hands. 「Or, what if the target of the gheistrum outbreak is not us, but someone in the Out-tribal settlement? Another force triggered the outbreak while the woman in white was tailing us. She simply took advantage of the mayhem! 」
Elrhian ruffled his hair in annoyance. 「That doesn’t explain why half the Kiklas came for us. Geez, so many possible scenarios. If there is one hostile force, then they don’t have that many spies they can use. If there are multiple, they are cooperating but each has different objectives. The woman in white, whoever triggered the outbreak, and the vine-bearded man…
In any case, one thing is for sure. One of those objectives is getting rid of us. The woman in white acted on it; the vine-bearded man messed up.」
Agwyn sulked. She grabbed his head by his cheek and turned it her way.
Elrhain blinked, smiling.
「Or maybe I am mistaken. Whatever the case, I don’t want to lose. Annie, do you want to know why dealing with the food problem is first on my list?」
Agwyn shook her head.
「In Earthloch, whether or not cultivator, the dhionne spend the majority of their waking hours either gathering or hunting food like our ancestors of palaeolithic Earth. 
Only after filling their stomachs will they spend any surplus energy on other things. Like thinking, innovating, and cultivating. 
But nobles aside, most of our servants and freemen are uneducated laymen who merely wish to survive, not thrive. 
If they have a calorie left over, they choose to spend that on cultivation, thought and innovation be damned!
Heck, even the big guy spends most of his time outside, putting down gheist hordes. That’s hunting, that’s gathering food. This primitive life binds the chieftain too.」
Elrhain paused to gather his thoughts while Agwyn snuggled into a more comfortable position and echoed her affirmations, indicating she understood.
「Ninety percent of cultivators are brutish warriors. Ninety percent of cultivators mindlessly follow scriptures without further thoughts as to why or how. 
After thousands of cycles of cumulative ‘study’ and ‘truth-seeking’, their progress is a pitiful ‘special technique’ that is more destructive.
What a waste of time! What better is that than apes figuring out how to poke beehives with longer sticks?
You know, Earthloch has three hundred thousand cycles of history? That is three million Earth years! That is longer than the entire human race’s advent, starting from when the first human evolved from tree-dwellers to dirt walkers. But look at this, these Earthlochian dhionne, still glorified hunter-gatherers.
The only difference is that they stay in one place, unlike nomads. But I think that’s because of manna-rioghs and other hostile factors. 
I also heard the Impelakty is far ahead in technology than us, whether magic or infrastructure, even though they were established about the same time as Earthloch. Same for most other high noble clans. 
The Oumental Diuvakty has magic towers that can fly like zeppelins. The small Ruolf Eyrshakty in the south can build ships that sail the void.
And Earthloch can face them head-on with nothing but brute force. But in my opinion, we still lost. They lost long ago when the other high noble clans left them behind in authentic, magical or scientific, progress. While we today are content in the resource-rich mountains and lakes of the north. We don’t even have wheels, for Collective’s sake!
Therefore, grandpa Thundham has been encouraging to train more ‘thinkers’ in the Elder’s rest. He sees what the future will be if we can’t solve these issues from the root, our inevitable defeat as more time passes. 
Why could the cold, resource-starved Europe conquer the world? Because of progress. 
China, India, Africa. These historically more prosperous kingdoms and empires were toppled over by the unstoppable trend of times that is scientific progress and turned into bread-basket colonies.
That’s why no matter what anyone says, the collapse is a bona fide blessing for Earthloch. It will give the dhionne here not only a chance to progress in personal strength but societal too. It gives us time.
You and me, we are here now. We don’t have to cultivate to be the strongest, not yet. 
Starting with food, as long as we reconstruct this society into something far more glorious, to make up for lost time, it will be our win.
The spies, the woman in white, her masters, and however many foes lurk within our people, they know that. If there was no collapse, maybe their masters could invade in full force. Win or not, it will damage Earthloch’s foundation for hundreds of cycles to come.
But now, all they can do is tickle us when we look in the other direction. Poke the sole of our feet with blunt needles because they are too far away.
Earthloch is our Collective now. Slowly, steadily, we can change it for the better. So no matter what happens, we can avert tragedies like today from happening.」
「And the truth?」
「That woman in white fucking spat at me! She looked like I was already a dead thing, that she could kill me whenever she wanted!」
「I don’t want to die so soon either. Ysbail would be sad.」
「I know, right? Who cares if I can cultivate or not. I’d like to see who can threaten us again after every one of our servants and their family’s fish-gremlins are Oceanic realm powerhouses!」
With that, Elrhain huffed. In his previous life, death came before his brain could register it.
It was a painless death. Overcoming it, Elrhain thought it was no big deal.
Today, Elrhain realized, he was terrified of dying. Today, the difference between life and death was just one Talisman Cyra gave him, just one spear that failed to skewer Alleigh’s heart.
Elrhain did not want to die again on another’s terms.




Chapter 71 – Doused Sparks

But the fact of the matter remained, the Earthloch clan might be their “Collective” now, but their primary sources of legitimacy and types of governance could not be any different.
The Collective in their past life was a coalition of social and liberal democracies. They held values of universal social rights and liberalism at a religion-like pedestal. The prevailing zeitgeist rejected all types of the ‘unequal equity’ dogmas of oligarchies and autocracies, and all forms ‘either slash or’ polarizing interpretation of capitalism versus communism.
In other words, it was the absolute worst kind of self-righteous, yet somehow the most citizen-friendly government of the thirty-first century. At least according to Elrhain, a former citizen of the said self-righteous nation. He would never admit that the Evidents, another super country based on Technocratic Demarchy, was 2 points higher than the Collective in the official human rights and happiness index.
The Earthloch clan and the whole of Uorys diosca on the other hand was a tribal mixture of totalitarian dictatorship and monarchic kraterocracy. 
The creed was, ‘Might maketh right’.
Earthloch had servants. A little more than puffed up slaves.
Theirs was not a system that one or two technological breakthroughs could change. It would need a whole ideological shift backed by an absolute power that was cultivators. Uprisings, revolutions, whether peaceful or not didn’t matter. Neither did it matter that the revolutions were gradual or sudden. What mattered was if the resultant change was unavoidable as what was brought about by the collapse on that night of the blessings.
If Elrhain and Agwyn wanted the Earthloch clan to really be their new Collective, many root practices and common sense of their family, friends, and subjects would have to be overhauled from the ground up.
At least on Earth there was fairness in death, even after life-extending genetic modifications became common. A bullet to the head would kill the lowest level employee and the Chairman of the Corporates all the same. 
Here, there was manna and magic. Cultivation techniques each so different in efficacy from the other that while one could only give people the power of an above-average polar bear, another could turn an anorexic, weak-minded dhionne into Behemoth-class Assault Mechanoids meant to fight navy fleets alone.
What was Elrhain going to do? Walk up to the three leaders and demand they equally hand over superior cultivation techniques and manna-rich resources among all their servants? Ask the nobles to remove servant sigils while believing that the folks they had been ruling with iron fists for generations wouldn’t have funny ideas regarding, well, everything?
Elrhain might be self-righteous, but he wasn’t naïve.
「I bet most of the resources from this collapse too will end up in main house coffers. The lesser nobles will get our dregs, while the servants get theirs. 」said Agwyn.
Elrhain nodded.
Thundham was a progressive mind. The old man showed with his action and words that he understood the positive points of empowering the people and not funnelling every iota of opportunity to the nobles. Before his generation, the Earthlochian clan was where nothing but the strongest fist mattered.
He had shifted at least some of the spotlight away from an unending pursuit of pure magical might at any cost towards a more compassion-centric path throughout his rule as first the Chieftain and then the Grand Elder. It was no longer a given that servants starve and die for their masters.
Most nobles directly under the main house and many more under the eight loch Palaikts slowly but surely were grasping concepts similar to Earth’s Noblesse Oblige. The master family was responsible for their charges and not the other way around.
But even he would never, not with a sane mind, agree to follow a path similar to the Collective. Not without an undeniable proof of concept.
「The current Earthloch Siorrakty’s main house can go toe to toe with all the other lesser noble houses of the north combined and win. We have three sky realmers and a Beyonder, our great grand-uncle who is out travelling. Most adults of the main house are Oceanic realmers at the lowest, Elder Croneira being an outlier. But her mastery over healing magic far outstrips most Oceanic realm mages and shamans of lesser noble houses. 
Ysbail’s mother, Aunt Meredith, one of the weakest Oceanic realmers of the main house, once fought the strongest of the Eight loch Palaikt, Palaikt Blethen, to a standstill while being a full circle weaker in cultivation. Though the bout wasn’t life or death, aunt Meredith being the only person present who could tame the rampaging hooligan, the power dynamic was clear for all to see. 
Only with absolute might like this can we be kings and queens. Loyalty and servitude to the main house are engraved upon our servants' very souls and flesh with slave-like sigils. That is the same for lesser nobles and clan freemen too, branded with a different, less restrictive manner of sigils than servants. 」Agwyn chirped, then yawned while rubbing her eyes.
She continued, 「People will only listen to us because of our status. The strength of our family ensures that status. That’s why Reanakt Saphur and everyone else asked for permission before using something so simple as a fishing pole. Distributing that source of that strength and status with impunity is the same as slowly strangling the main house to death. Well… I hate to admit it, but the only way we can bring the societal change we envision is to become stronger ourselves.」
Agwyn stopped, then rubbed Elrhain’s cheeks with her’s.
「Don’t pout and don’t apologize. Being bad at cultivation isn’t your fault, and we have to wait until we are ten cycles old to break through to the Earthen realm either way. 」
Elrhain knew Agwyn was right, but it didn’t make him feel any better. The outside world wanted them both gone because of the incremental technological improvement they might bring to the ‘brutish barbarians’ of Earthloch. While the brutish barbarians of Earthloch themselves were the farthest away from the more pressing societal improvement Elrhain first and foremost wanted to bring.
At the end of the day, it all came back to cultivation. It was a catch-22. He wanted to change Earthloch into a fairer society, where the collective strength of the people would overtake the current strength of the few by orders of magnitude. But to do that, he needed to become one of the strongest few himself.
The oral rehydration solution and the fishing pole they ‘invented’ were, in fact, Elrhain testing the waters. Though in the first case, they really didn’t have much choice. 
How would these easily applicable innovations change Earthloch? How fast would these changes come, and how many objections would they face? 
The test was a success, in a sense. Because they solved pressing issues the clan faced right now, there weren’t any objections to speak of. Elrhain could invent simple solutions to simpler problems and distribute them to the people. Wheels, cement, sharper swords and pointier spears. The nobles would distribute them among the servant populace.
But therein lie the problem. The nobles let the servants use such mundane tools with ease of mind while greedily hoarding the better-quality cultivation resources.
Take the fishing pole. After its usage spread among the mortals like wildfire, one unexpected change occurred that Elrhain didn’t foresee. The noble families tightened their grasp on Earthen and up manna-rich resources even more.
Since now the servants could catch their own manna poor gheists which were more than enough to fill their bellies and fuel their cultivation, they wouldn’t need their usual quota of Earthen gheist meat anymore, no?
That’s what they thought. Before, most of the catch from the hunt and delve teams went to nobles, and the dregs went to servants.
Now, all of such catch went to nobles.
Yes, mortals could benefit more from the mortal realm catch from the lakes. It stopped starvation and aided their cultivation. Also yes, not all nobles were like this. For example, the Haragols.
Yet most were.
This was a new boon granted by new technology. Why did the mortals have to be deprived of a boon they already enjoyed before?
It was as if many nobles consciously or subconsciously realized a threat of the Sword of Damocles. Not to mention, just as how Reanakt Saphur had to ask the main house for permission to use the fishing pole, the servants had to do the same with their respective master houses.
This repressive mentality of the nobles, the main house included, pissed Elrhain off to no end. Agwyn had to soothe him with kisses and hugs.
Elrhain realized that practical frameworks like the fishing pole would not fundamentally change the power dynamic and common sense of Earthlochian society. Indeed, it’ll make the poor slightly richer. Which was enough so that a fishing pole was a life-saving grace to them. But the same thing made nobles exponentially wealthier, ironically taking away existing wealth from the poor.
But as for ideological change, starting with the free dissemination of knowledge was a different matter altogether. Let alone freedom of expression.
A library full of cultivation techniques that any dhionne could access regardless of status, a source of manna-rich resources and ichors that were not owned by the noble houses, and places of trade and governance not controlled by the current rulers?
Well, for now, all Elrhain could do was dream.
「You already said ‘slowly, steadily, we can make it better.’ You aren’t getting cold feet just because the slow and steady is even slower than what you imagined, are you?」 Agwyn giggled at Elrhain’s glare.
This catch-22 wasn’t really unsolvable. It would just take a ridiculous amount of time. Time they had, being born dhionne who lived ten times longer than humans. More so because they were cultivators.
The problem wasn’t that. It was Elrhain’s mental sanity.







Chapter 72 – Insanity of Time

「I bet that dhionne have anti-insanity modules in their brains. They can cheerily spend their long-ass lives living the same way every day. 」 Elrhain sighed. Whatever that brain module was, he and Agwyn obviously lacked it.
Each cycle was ten years. By the time Elrhain would be a teenager here, he would have lived twice as long as he had on Earth. Which was absolutely crazy.
Elrhain’s soul was human. Human souls weren’t meant to take that long to be bloody teenagers. The sense of urgency and the level of impatience he and Agwyn felt daily despite literally having all the time in the world was not something their family could comprehend.
Even the mere thought that he had to spend that much time from now on doing nothing but cultivating was enough for him to curl up and cry.
Worse yet, this was a world without trillions of hours of mindless entertainment they could stream on the internet or enjoy first-hand in the virtual world.
No comics, games, novels, movies, full dive mmos, and book clubs to drink tea with friends. The withdrawal symptoms were fatal for modern souls, and the potent drugs were nowhere in sight.
That’s why he and Agwyn had been visiting every settlement they could for the last few months. Meeting new people, reading new scrolls. Anything to stave off the soul-numbing boredom.
But for how long? They had already visited all native Earthlochian settlements, and the only option left was the Out-tribal hamlets. That went about as well as no one expected.
Sure, he needed excitement. But he didn’t need it so bad as to become traumatized. He wasn’t at the point where he’d risk his life for one sniff of white powder.
Newer Earthlochian settlements were popping up with every group of incoming dhionne, but that would also end by the following season. He didn’t want to visit Out-tribals anymore either.
What were they going to do to pass the time after that? Just read in the archives? Play the same tag games and have similar conversations with the same people?
Elrhain wanted, no, needed change. It was the same for Agwyn. They had a list of Earth concepts they could rather easily adapt on Earthloch lands and a more challenging list of things they couldn’t.
If they got lost in that research, they could perhaps spend the next decade (in cycles, not years) with things to actually do. After that, what to do was a problem for a future, and hopefully better adapted Elrhain.
Yet as things stood now after today’s assaults, there was no way Elrhain’s family would allow them to ‘waste time’ doing stuff that was not cultivation.
It was funny, in a sense. The future was both certain and uncertain. 
Uncertain because there were things Elrhain and Agwyn had decided, albeit vaguely, to do to pass their mindbogglingly long lifespans that they now couldn’t do. Certain, because with their current toddler bodies and low not-getting-instakill’ed abilities, the only thing they were allowed to do was cultivation.
The last few seasons were exciting. It felt like years, and it had been years in Earth terms since they moved to Lochuir from their home in the Siaglas Reanakty. But after these few years, things had settled into the ‘routine’ once again.
The advent of newness made three past cycles feel like a far distant mirage to their excitement-starved minds. This happened fast, turning their memories into an infinite fugue they neither could hear clearly nor wanted anymore. When they had done nothing but crawl and talk on a crib-like bed with only one window to look outside. Even as they learnt to walk and run, they were limited in that one Siaglas residence. Seeing the same scenery and feeling the same wind for thirty damn years.
That’s why when they learnt they would finally leave that well-intentioned prison for something new, something ‘not home,’ their emotions had gone haywire. Elrhain doubted if Agwyn would have ever confessed her love without that as a catalyst.
But just as rapidly the newness had come, it was turning into a routine.
They once more faced the problem. Day by day, the excitement fades away. Soon, everything would become familiar. And mundane. And they could not even leave the Siorrakty because of the collapse. Blessings for the clan it might be, but a new prison for the two all the same.
Actually, even doing research for the next decade-cycle wouldn’t solve this issue at its core. There was something wrong with Elrhain and Agwyn, both physiologically and emotionally. A curse that no other child suffered from. It was the disease of knowing that a better life existed far beyond their current reach. The effort it would take to reach it was daunting.
Yes, they could dive deep into the mysteries of manna to learn and discover things about magic no one else knew. Every day it would be exciting. And if it was exciting every day, then it really wasn’t exciting was it?
But at least there was hope. However complex and convoluted it was. Beggars couldn’t be choosers.
Elrhain then wondered if this Elven length of time the dhionne lived made most literary things in their culture prodigiously complex. 
The Uorian language had hundreds of thousands, if not millions of characters. It had a unique symbol for every little thing in existence, like the ancient Egyptian or Chinese scripts but with more time to ferment. 
The mundane version of the language was written as both an alphabet and a syllabary while also showing signs of an abugida. There were simultaneously tens and hundreds of synonyms of a word. In contrast, each word was also unique in its own way. Also, dhionne had more vocal organs inside their mouth and throat than humans. So their phonetic range out-numbered the human equivalent by orders of magnitudes.
The language was sing-songy. The grammatical rules were foreign and convoluted, stringing words together to make sentences by both rhythm and underlying syntactical guidelines. There was no romaji or pinyin, but there were combinations of symbols and syllabics that described each phonetic unit. Each combination was far more complex to write than a regular character of the Uorian alphabet slash syllabary slash abugida.
It took two to three hundred earth years for the average privileged dhionne on Earthloch to master it. 
Elrhain and Agwyn did it in one-tenth the time. 
It was a nightmare, but having thirty earth years with nothing else to do did the trick. They were already tired of languages, yet they had to learn more to do magic.
But the language of magic was different from the mundane one. The Runic Script consisted of complicated glyphs and simpler runes. Each glyph was a unique symbol that could be broken down into compound, complex and simple units, like Lego blocks. Like the Mandelbrot set where one could zoom indefinitely. But in the case of a single glyph, the fractals were finite, with each simplest rune being the basic building block. Nevertheless, the fiasco was degrees more intricate than the mundane written script.
There were an infinite number of these magical runic glyphs for the many fields of magic. Such as alchemy, rune-writing, spirit-telling, cultivation arts, shamanic rituals and so on so forth. 
There were systematic ways of learning them. But at a glance, the systems of each field were mutually exclusive, unlike Earth, where chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics and all other sciences were irrevocably interconnected. The connection here was infinitesimal as far as the practitioners of Uorys Diosca were concerned. 
Elrhain knew that wasn’t actually the case. Still, the rulers of this world deemed any exploration of such a subject unnecessary. 
Long story short, magic was freaking dumb. And hard. And painful. 
The shamans and mages of the old didn’t bother to simplify any of the concepts to make the entry bar lower. No “Mathematics for Today” booklets for kindergarteners. 
For the local dhionne, it took months of contemplation and meditation to comprehend the meaning of the complex glyphs written in their cultivation scriptures. It depended on weird things such as sudden inspirations or epiphanies.
After that, they would cultivate non-stop, sitting there, doing nothing even if their annoyed spouses poked them with sticks.
So whether it was cultivation and magic or exploring the laws behind them, they were daunting tasks that would take hundreds of earth years of continuous effort. 
With no entertainment acting as buffers, no breaks that actually counted? It was droll. 
The effort, Elrhain could give. But living a perpetual ‘watching the paint dry’ life?
…. maybe if cultivation was as addictive as binge-watching romantic soap operas. Maybe if Elrhain were a mad scientist and not a boring, everyday one, he could grit his teeth and endeavour to become an oceanic or sky realmer as fast as possible. All the while unearthing one secret of manna after another.
But he wasn’t. He was just Elrhain, and he was bored out of his mind. He was a man of science whose life work was an accidental invention. He was an investor and a billionaire who lived life under every mindless luxury possible.
He was a good fella, according to his girlfriend. But in her words, ‘You ain’t no idol of perseverance.’ 
He ran away more than he charged ahead. And he could say that Agwyn and ninety percent of Earthlings living in big cities of the thirty-first century were the same. They followed the easy, proven way.
They were both curious beings like everyone else. One hoping for adventure, another hoping to seek the unknown. 
They both wanted to make the world a better place in their own image, again like everyone else. But they weren’t the type to risk their lives intentionally. Nor were they the type to sit on a magical glowing rock, meditating two-thirds of their time awake. Nor did they want to sit on a chair for the same amount of time, watching one magic tree sap react with another magic fishbone amidst hundreds of thousands of science failures.
All of that was boring. They didn’t want boring.
It was much easier to adapt Earth technology here. He didn’t need to do the magic himself. He could show a direction and teach the theory. The mages and shamans could write up the glyphs, arrays and rituals to make blast furnaces and steam turbines. 
Who knows? He might awaken to the joys of teaching. Another avenue to explore. 
Elrhain had no concrete plans for the future. Only vague visions. He wanted to grow up as fast as possible, but time wouldn’t let him. He wanted to create a society where every dhionne could be, if not satisfied, then at least contented. Time wouldn’t let him.
If Elrhain was even ten cycles older with an Earthen cultivation base, none of this would’ve mattered. A mature body could do things to pass time that an underdeveloped toddler couldn’t. But he wasn’t an adult, not even a tween. He was weak and twiddly. And assassins after his life didn’t help ease any of that stress.
「The more you think about it, the more you will feel depressed.」 Agwyn snuggled up to him. She was the only person in the world who understood his dilemma of having both too much and too little time.
Hells, she was a genius in cultivation. But she, too, didn’t want to spend the next ten or twenty cycles of her life cultivating. The girl would literally implode because of inertia. And not being able to plasma gun the heads of folks out to murder her didn’t feel so good either.
「We had a shit day. Sleep. My mother, Earth mother, always told me to break problems down into small chunks and tackle them part by part. Right now, every issue feels overwhelming. 」 The girl let out another giant yawn. 「So let’s think about this tomorrow. We can decide on future goals and choices with clear heads. This time, on parchment. We’ll… make lists… and charts… and..」
Elrhain sensed her quiet breath. He took a few more seconds to steady his beating heart. Counting fish goblins jumping over Lontwood barriers helped.
The annoyance was still there. But it was manageable, no longer a swirl.
‘Yeah, I’m going about this like a fool.’ He admitted, then closed his eyes. Before long, only darkness remained.
The two children fell into a happier dreamland, their subconscious minds quietly but quickly sorting the turmoil into tranquillity. Without knowing that the next day, the world would force them into a choice neither of them were keen to follow.






Chapter 73 - Death Told

Elrhain walked down the cavern holding Agwyn’s hand. The floor was slippery, with teal moss growing on every surface. Water ran in streams in the cracks, helping the moss extend its reach into the walkway.
Earlier, they had rejected Cyra when she offered to carry them like always. Agwyn wanted to move their bodies, and Elrhain wouldn’t say no. Cyra sulked to no effect.
The other cousins were busy chitchatting about this and that. About the attacks yesterday. How the clan was on its tiptoes, even low-born servants working their tasks with tight eyebrows. There was a muffled sense of excitement, the sort that Elrhain didn’t want yet seemed to prevail in society here.
Cadfael and Vesiphis glanced their way from time to time. No doubt to ask them their experience. Being victims and all.
The two were not in the mood. They had wanted to make a few to-do lists today, but the mean Cyra plucked them from their bed first thing in the morning and skipped into the Elder’s rest where their entourage waited. This definitely wasn’t the reason Agwyn didn’t let her carry them.
To no one’s surprise, today was going to be another long day of safety precautions. Part of Elrhain felt reassured, and part of him annoyed. The shamans had auguries to do and divinations to perform; this took up all the free time they had before their daily cultivation. 
Along the way, they met up with their teacher shaman Tudor and a lanky chocolate skinned woman wearing every manner of bone and stone jewellery imaginable.
Her beast-skin robe was gaudy and ember gaze haughty; naeman witch Alorakana glared at Cyra like she had stolen her biscuit.
“This isn’t what we agreed.”
“Ten oceanic grade herbs and one high oceanic core.” Cyra huffed, annoyed as Agwyn looked away from her.
“Well I can’t refuse now, can I?”
The witch grinned. She looked down at the two toddling scions, saying, “Princess, it seems like we’ll be needing more of your beautiful azure hair. What a shame it is.”
Agwyn’s stumpy legs could not reach her even though she jumped for a drop-kick. Cyra caught the yelling little girl before she could crash into the ground.
“Let! Go! I don’t want to sit in another ritual. The weird manna makes my nose tingle!”
“Only your nose?” Alorakana grinned.
“It must be fun bullying children.” Elrhain grabbed Agwyn’s hand as her mother put her down. The Earthloch princess was fuming like a kettle.
Alorakana turned her amused smirk towards Elrhain. “We’ll be using eight oceanic gheist cores today. It will be four times as tinglier last. We’ll also need four times the hair.”
“….N-Nyo!” Agwyn screamed while the girls paled. Eight locks of hair? How long would it take to grow back? They counted with their fingers, then gasped in unison as if the sky had fallen.
“Witch Alorakana, enough. We aren’t paying you to run your mouth off.” Cyra warned the Naeman woman. Though Elrhain could see her trying to hold in a grin as Agwyn crashed into her, begging with all her cuteness not to do the ritual. Indeed, angry toddlers were more adorable than threatening. 
Cyra’s face looked conflicted for a second as Agwyn’s pestering grew more pitiful. But the slug woman steadied her resolve. 
“Yes, my lady, oh great Faediaga Eldress. Though princess, if you ask your dear mother if she can part with a sky grade gheistrum core and not oceanic, I might be able to make other arrangements.”
The witch muttered half-heartedly as they passed through another cavern. But the glint in her eyes told that she had picked up on Cyra’s hesitancy. A merchant first and witch second, like all naeman were.
The group soon entered a stone corridor inscribed with mysterious patterns in lost languages. Murals of bygone times illuminated by only dim glowing water leaking from ceiling to floor.
It was a familiar passageway. Elrhain guessed that the cavern at the end of this path was the one with the colossal dhionne statue with many arms. The chambers where he and Agwyn had prepared for their blessing ceremony and saw that apocalyptic vision lay inside a lotus flower hoisted in one of its hands. 
Were they headed to the same place? Would he meet Maeog again? Or maybe this time it was a temple inside one of the other hands.
As he pondered, Agwyn held tight her mother’s robe and planted her feet into the ground. Cyra dragged her forward for a couple more steps until the faediaga eldress was forced to stop.
“And this alternative method…,” She asked with a groan, “Doesn’t require hair?”
Agwyn’s gaze was expectant enough to save puppies.
“It doesn’t.” Alorakana stilled, turning around with a swoosh of her colourful frock. She took off one of the many necklaces hung from her neck. It looked like a shard of ice tied to a bristle rope, with small fangs tied between the string at equal intervals.
“A Death Teller,” Alorakana explained. “The ritual today is to glimpse into the future and infer whether your two children will face danger within the next day. It is an expensive ritual, but the glimpse it gives you is hazy. About what you would expect of dhionne magic. This death teller on the other hand, while can only discern what happens within the next seven minutes, can foretell the wearer’s death. And only death.”
Elrhain’s mouth widened. Future… sight? It was a time telescope! Or radar. Or!
「Wait, we have rituals that can see into the future?」 The boy’s brain hanged. His eyes quickly crossed with Agwyn’s, who looked greedy and shocked at the same time.
「We need this! For safety… And your hair!」 The little girl nodded as if the spring on her neck was broken.
Alorakana continued on like the seasoned trader she was, “A sky grade core for a second chance at life. You wouldn’t have to waste your oceanic cores on these bogus dhionne rituals every day either. You could also spare your daughter her hair.”
“E-Eight locks of hair… Every day?!” Agwyn turned her tearful eyes towards Cyra. “Mommy? Is Ellie going to marry a bald Annie?”
“H-Hey, dhionne rituals aren’t that bad. The Grand Shamanka said we could also use nails and blood!” Cyra hastily defended dhionne magic, but the twitch in her words made her a horrible lawyer. She looked away from her daughter’s judging eyes in shame, only to meet Tudor’s.
The dwarfish dhionne shrugged. “The Naeman Witch speaks the truth. Their kind is far more proficient in these sorts of rituals than our shamans. I’d say the trinket is worth it. Besides,” Tudor looked at Agwyn, “It’s not pleasant trying to teach a grumpy student.”
“Y-Yes! Annie will be super grumpy without hair!” Agwyn tugged on her mother’s robe and started wailing again.
“Okay, I get it. Don’t cry Gwyn.” Cyra sighed, then nodded at Alorakana.
Elrhain swore he could see a triumphant twinkle in the witch’s eyes. Agwyn excitedly ran to her and snatched the death teller from her long-nailed hands.
“So, how does the trinket work?” Tudor asked with interest. Eudav and Arfon’s ears also perked up. Alorakana tilted her head with squinting eyes, then smiled like a cat. She went into a cryptic theory of manna aspects and glyphs while taking every chance to mention other of her cryptic ware.
Elrhain had no interest in any of that for now. He turned his gaze towards Agwyn’s open palms where the death teller lay. The other cousins surrounded the two and looked at the icy necklace with keen eyes. It changed hands one by one. Agwyn winced when Cadough gave it a lick.
Cyra was the last one to observe the necklace. Her eyes glowed a neon blue as she held it up. For some reason, she nodded in satisfaction and then returned the trinket, which was actually a high-level talisman, back to Agwyn.
The Naeman witch’s prideful boasts came from behind. After Cyra judged that today they need not perform any tingly, hair-ruining ritual with the death teller on hand, the group had turned around. 
Some noisy minutes passed, and they were once more near the exit of the mural inscribed passageway from where they had entered. 
The little princess wore the death teller and tucked it under her collar. Clicking her tongue, she changed her mind and untucked the necklace again.
The whole point would be futile if this death teller was hidden behind clothes when it, well, told of death. Not that they knew how it did so. Elrhain made a mental note to ask the witch after her boasting ended.
「Huh… something’s weird.」 The boy suddenly said through their link, his eyes catching an anomaly in the transparent shard. 「Why’s there a crack in the middle. It wasn’t like this a moment ago… And it’s growing bigger. Did she give you a broken product?」
「Uhh, really?」
Elrhain nodded in response as they stepped out of the passageway into the previous cavern. Agwyn held the necklace up in front of her eyes. The bioluminescence illuminated their faces. It flicked off Elrhain’s eyes as they followed as the crack fissuring larger, almost bisecting it in two vertical halves. Alorakana’s voice reached his ears with the underground wind as the colour in Agwyn’s face faded. 
“… and the moment this fate aspected glyph picks up on the death of the wearer’s soul, the Lamionite Fatestone on the death teller necklace will crack. Within breaths, it will split in two. The count has already begun by now, as has the future changed. The wearer knows of the danger and will inevitably struggle. Her effort might save her life or extend the time of death’s arrival. It may even hasten it if she were particularly unlucky that day. Hmm, what’s wrong little princess? Why are you holding up the death… teller… By the voids!”
Agwyn, now visibly panicking like she had lost a duckling in a desert, raised the two halves of the necklace towards the three adults in their group with trembling hands. She gulped, and with much difficulty managed to squeak, “M-Mommy?”










Chapter 74 - Third Beat Underground


Cyra responded in a blink. Elrhain saw a burst of water, and the faediaga eldress was standing in front of the group with wary eyes.
Glistening blue manna from her body permeated throughout the cavern. Part of it turned into tendrils that crisscrossed in open space. It filled the whole cavern like molecular threads, ready to ensnare and dismember any foe that appeared.
The rest gathered around the children in a half-spherical barrier that rotated gently. Cyra’s eyes didn’t move from the clearing. She took out a sapphire medallion and shattered it. A bird of blue light, like the one Agwyn summoned from her talisman near the seven pearl lakes, flew out from the cracks. It released a shallow cry, then split into five, each travelling down one pathway leading away from the cavern. Including the one from which they had just exited.
Tudor hoisted a gnarly staff. He ruffled his beard while showing Agwyn a reassuring smile. The staff bottom tapped the cavern floor with each of his steps. Pulses of blue manna spread out in circular waves where the staff tapped the mossy stone, then encompassed the barrier as a second line of defence.
Alorakana fidgeted nervously to the side as she bit her lips, mumbling, “By the voids. T-This is not what we agreed on.”
Elrhain gave her a stinky glance. The witch genuinely looked terrified. He patted her legs, saying, “I bet you have a bunch of talismans lying around. I think this is the time to use them- “
Two changes happened simultaneously, interrupting his well-intentioned advice.
A roar echoed from many of the passageways honeycombed into the cavern. It came… from below? Followed by a low rumbling of the earth. Another roar followed, then another. Soon, it was like the cacophony of Earthloch’s primordial forest. The cries of beasts, the flutter of wings, and the distinct sound of chitinous appendage on stone. 
But the first roar was distinctly different from the others. It had… intent?
Elrhain looked at his feet and saw the specks of gravel vibrate. He looked up at Cyra. Her face tensed, but for a split second it looked relieved before morphing into worry. Thinking about it, the first roar resembled Cyra when she was in her draconic form.
「Reinforcements. Or there’s a battle breaking out elsewhere.」
Agwyn nodded. She scuttled up beside him and pointed her finger towards a lone ruined pillar.
「I hope they get here soon. The last roars sounded like gheistrums. More frenzied.」
The second change, the pillar with murals of lost ages carved upon its body wobbled as if it was a reflection on troubled water. Tiny blue crystals jutted out from the cracks on the pillar, simmering the anomaly in dim cyan light.
A horizontal line cut through the pillar’s vertical axis and split open like a beast opening its mouth.
But the pillar didn’t break. The space around the cut pushed apart like a rubber sheet, the murals on both sides of the pillar stretched like drawings on an inflating balloon. The cut soon turned into a full circle, behind which lay a gaping white void.
A noise broke like a thousand critters and skitters of teeth upon teeth and claws upon glass. Elrhain’s ears rang, but the sheer force of Cyra’s manna soon overwhelmed the sound.
The faediaga eldress didn’t give whatever was on the other side a chance.
BOOM!
Elrhain only saw her raising a hand, and the mural, along with the gap in space, exploded as though a hundred-ton truck full of water had crashed into it. Vapour rose and the dusty mist spread, but Cyra didn’t stop.
She cast spell after spell while Tudor readied his own offence. Alorakana darted back, taking out a parchment scroll from her cleavage.
Cyra scrunched her brows, her slug-like lower body tensed. The faediaga eldress halted her spell casting with an annoyed click of her tongue.
「That can’t be good.」
The water-webbed skirt around Cyra’s slug tail drew back on the floor before she vaulted out like a catapult. Manna gathered upon her open palms, forming spell matrices. 
She pulled her hands back and formed fists to punch out, but a shadow shaped like a spear forced her to hastily block in front.
“The woman in white!” Agwyn shouted, pointing towards the familiar assassin with more rage than her mother. It was the culprit who messed up her dear Alleigh and Captain Anouk.
Cyra knocked aside the spear and went straight for the interloper, but from behind the woman in white came seven more spears, stopping her in her charge again. The impact blew away the screen of mist and dust, so now everyone had a clear view of their enemies.
She stood there, no sign of the injuries she had sustained not even a day prior. A dozen more white spears inlaid with complex engravings and glimmering gheist cores hung on her back. She was covered in full body armour.
It was clear she did not come here for a chat.
Elrhain gulped.
The woman in white wasn’t alone. Behind her, seven more dhionne stepped out from the gap. No, portal. Each cladded white armour, decked with an arsenal of manna enchanted equipment with spears aplenty.
But they weren’t what spooked Elrhain.
Thousands upon thousands of black rats with humongous ears and bulbous eyes poured out from the portal like a waterfall, bringing along a foul smell and purple smog. They only parted when they met the assassins like the wave upon rocks.
The rats scampered and cried in a tsunami of ear-splitting screeches, then crashed onto Cyra and the barrier protecting the children with blood lighted eyes.
******
Ten hours ago, in a grotto in a mountain a few kilometres away from the seven pearl lakes.
The woman in white stood before a pool of sparkling water. Beside her, a similarly draped girl healed her with the best recovery magic from the Impelakty. Two giant men stood a step behind, their eyes fixed upon the pool.
After a few quick minutes of wait, the water in the pool swirled. Specks of manna flowed up and formed a humanoid shadow.
The dhionne kneeled.
““We greet the Impelakt, the holy light upon the exalted disc.””
“Stand.” A voice sounding like the echo of a hundred bells spoke. “Speak. Did you confirm the tether, Reconer Galina?”
The woman in white, Reconer Galina, spoke after showing the Impelakt rite for deference. “Yes, holy light. There is an unbreakable tether connecting the Earthloch princess and her betrothed boy. It is…. Similar to the records detailing the founders. I could only see it after casting a sky ranked [Astral Sight] spell with the help of a talisman.”
A few silent minutes passed, then a tired sigh escaped from the humanoid shadow. The other reconers were all kneeling, so their faces were unseen. But many among them had shocked expressions.
Not at the prospect of their target being like their founders… but at the Impelakt’s show of, even if subtle, weakness.
The Impelakt cared not for their musings, knowing he would see none of these reconers again. The ending task he would order had little chance of them returning alive.
“The four here will halt all other activities. This holy one will inform the second team under the Fractured Tundra Peninsula. They will join you within the hour. Use all the remaining Ancillary Riogh-hearts. Tomorrow, you will have the two royals’ heads.”
“Yes, we hear and listen!” The four reconers displayed no wavering even as the Impelakt tasked them with a suicide mission.
“Holy light, permission to speak.” Reconer Galina knelt lower.
“Granted.”
“Would it not be optimal to recover the two tethered children? I do not mean to undermine the light’s decree. Still, they might be the founder and his Impelaktess reincarnated if the records of the Imperial archives are true. There was the collapse as well. Records tell of a similar event when the founder and the first Impelaktess performed their blessing ceremony.”
“That may be so. All the more reason they must die.”
“Apologies. This foolish one doesn’t understand.”
“If they are reincarnated souls, they could possess knowledge of the ancients unheard of in the past hundreds of thousands of cycles. The knowledge they use even as we speak to empower the northern savages. Fishing poles, the cure for the swampling’s curse spread by the Mutant Plague Rats, and who knows what else. I will NOT tolerate this. Not when we are so close to unifying the mainland under the rule of this holy one. Not when we cannot invade these savages directly because of the collapse. And besides…”
Reconer Galina, as with everyone else, perked up their ears.
“Well, this isn’t really a secret. Every main bloodline noble of the high noble clans knows of this. The first Impelaktess, she was the blood elder sister of Earthloch’s founder.”
There was an intake of breath. But the four trained reconers corrected their expressions in a heartbeat.
******
Reconer Galina observed the barrier protecting the two tethered children. The torrents of water on its surface dismembered the horde of mutant plague rats as though they were made of leaves.
A short mage, one of the Earthlochian shamans, cast spell upon spell in brief intervals. But they were not aimed at her colleagues or the rat horde. His spells reinforced the barrier by the breath, forming layers of elemental defence.
Even a full-powered strike from a sky realmer would do no damage to that judging by the intensity of swirling manna.
‘Good.’ Reconer Galina thought. She watched the spectacle of her seven colleagues, each mid or high oceanic, as they struggle to fend off the strikes of the unleashed faediaga eldress. 
“Impelakty Reconers? Has that unholy lecherous scum finally lost his mind?! War will not be the end of this!” Cyra, in her dragon form, roared in umbrage. She whipped another of the white-clad bastards aside. But the man stood up in less than two breaths, screeching as he rejoined the fight.
Reconer Galina steadied her mind, trying not to react to the insults toward their holy light. She would not deign the savage Siorraktess with a reply.
Her hand held a fist-sized orb of murky blackness. It pulsed with partial life but no will of its own. The mysterious congregation of aspects that made a manna-riogh heart so special also remained, ready to be used for the Impelakt’s grand design.
An ancillary riogh heart. The Impelakty’s latest creation, the fruit of a thousand cycles of effort by their knowledgeable scholars.
It could change an area into an artificial manna-riogh as the spells upon it activated. It would then link this secondary manna-riogh with the primary manna back in the Impelakty capital even with a thousand kilometres between them, transporting unending streams of gheistrums at comparatively little manna cost. Reconer Galina had used that to bring the millions of plague rats here and what she had used to trigger the gheistrum wave yesterday. And many of the manna-rioghs in the abyss under this very cavern.
Though it pained her she would not see the bright future, her fellow reconers back home will also use these devices as gateways for the Impelakty’s war efforts. She and her colleagues used another ancillary riogh-heart earlier for the same purpose. It was one made out of the remains of a riogh-heart taken from the Dim Subterranean Abyss under these Earthloch caverns to open a gateway here without triggering a single Earthlochian shamanic ward.
But this talisman had more mystical functions, truly an all-encompassing wonder of wisdom.
Galina looked down, ignoring the pain as the ancillary riogh-heart melded into her palms.
They would not need to break any unbreakable barrier nor defeat the enraged faediaga eldress to complete their task.
All they would need was time and distance.








Chapter 75 - Crescendo


“Eeeek!” Witch Alorakana squealed as another rat was crushed to meat paste before her eyes. The swarm of vermin was unending and their dead remains steadily piled up around the barrier. It worried Elrhain that these rats also came from the tunnel behind them.
The boy scoffed, tempted to get back at Alorakana for bullying Agwyn when she was such a coward. But the occasion wasn’t one for get-backs. It was best not to agitate adults when their life was in peril.
“Uncle Tudor! We can help. The five of us have ignited all our nodes!”
Apparently, not everyone thought so. Vesiphis, along with the black meanie, Efa, Olwina and Ariana brought out their Nascent totems, ready for some action. Howell and the rest also had their lifesaving talismans in hand.
This, of course, agitated the hell out of Tudor, being the responsible adult that he was.
“Absolutely not!” The dwarfish dhionne didn’t give them the time of the day. Fighting to the death differed from fighting under controlled conditions like back in Haragol village. One mistake, one shift in concentration would be all it took to lead to catastrophe. 
Elrhain nodded, then pushed Agwyn forward. His girlfriend got the hint and walked up to the idiots.
“P-Pwease don’t go. W-what if those smelly rats get in? Annie can’t fight them alone!” She quivered with tears in her eyes.
The idiots awkwardly exchanged glances for a few seconds, not knowing what to do. Until Cadfael stepped forward. He was silent but positioned himself between Agwyn and the rats. This time, Agwyn turned a blind eye to any ulterior motives and the smirk on Cadfael’s lips as he glanced sideways at Elrhain.
…. Though she made a mental note of it.
Vesiphis and the rest hesitated for a while longer, then gave up. They circled Elrhain, Agwyn, Cati, Ysbail and Ruba like bodyguards.
「Kids don’t have a sense of danger.」 He complained. 「Always thinking the world revolves around them. That nothing could actually go wrong until something goes horribly wrong. Vesiphis has ways to go before becoming a qualified manager.」 
「Shush. These assassins…. They have a plan. Those seven are obviously stalling. And that woman in white… wait, there’s something in her hand!」 said Agwyn. Elrhain’s eyes pricked before his vision zoomed in to where Agwyn was looking. 
The glow was faint. And it didn’t look like anyone else had noticed. Only Elrhain’s supernatural sight and Agwyn who was mentally connected to all of Elrhain’s senses glimpsed it. The feeling was like when Elrhain had spotted the vine-bearded man. There might be soul-magic spells hiding whatever the woman in white was fidgeting with.
Elrhain pondered what to do. His hypersensitive ears picked up more roars coming from the tunnels that entered the cavern accompanied by the sound of raging water.
He took a deep breath, then shouted at the top of his lungs, “SLUG WOMAN! THEY ARE STALLING! THERE IS SOMETHING IN THE WOMAN IN WHITE’S HAND AND THEY’RE COUNTING ON THAT TO FINISH THEIR PLANS!”
Every head in that room snapped in his direction. No sooner than that, another devastating torrent of manna exploded from Cyra’s draconic form.
******
“After today’s attack, they will increase guards around the two children until not even a fly could sneak in. If any of the three sky realmers are present, breaking through will be hopeless.” The Impelakt spoke in a slow, measured tone. 
“We are to assimilate?” Asked Reconer Galina.
“You are. The others need only stall. So they shall go for pure power. Reconer Galina, extend your hand.”
The Reconer did as told.
The shadow of the Impelakt did the same. A trickle of manna exited from his hand and merged with Galina’s.
Her eyes glowed white and nausea washed over. She supported herself by propping up her body with her free hand. A sudden influx of glyphs and knowledge overwhelmed her mind.
“T-This is.”
“[Spectral Sacrifice]. Reconer Galina, you have one task. This holy one will remember your merits, as will the Impelakty for generations to come, but only if you succeed.”
“I hear and obey.” There was no hesitation in her voice. 
As the Impelakt had said, she only had one task. Her comrades shall oblate their bodies and souls if need be to take pressure away from her.
The Impelakt gave a few more commands and a rare word of encouragement. His shadow then vanished as if it had never existed.
Less than an hour later, four more reconers joined them after using an ancillary riogh-heart to open a gateway to their location. Half a day after, they used the same method to infiltrate the Elder’s rest. 
While not even out of the gateway, they first triggered multiple gheistrum outbreaks in all nearby manna-rioghs. This should distract most reinforcements for at least a few good minutes. They also commanded half of the mutant plague rat horde to flood into other tunnels and fill those with plague miasma. 
The Earthlochian wards resisted only a heartbeat before the soul magic empowered by an ancillary riogh heart tore it apart.
Yet fate would not have it their way entirely. Their targets somehow foresaw the danger and had prepared strong defences.
The battle drew longer around Reconer Galina, even as the Faediaga Eldress rampaged. Until the prince consort noticed a crucial detail in their plans despite the subterfuge spell cast on the ancillary riogh heart. 
But it mattered not. Galina’s preparations were almost over.
“Begin assimilation.” She commanded.
Five of her comrades disengaged, then gathered in a circle around her. The remaining two defended by throwing their bodies at the Faediaga’s spells. They grabbed onto her wings and legs and held on strong even as the faediaga tore their flesh apart.
They wouldn’t last long, but ten breaths were all they needed.
Each of the five took out an ancillary riogh-heart which immediately got the Faediaga’s attention. She roared and slashed, and the blood of their comrades fell. The two reconers on the verge of death used whatever remaining manna they had to activate a particular spell on their own ancillary riogh hearts.
The manna inside the devices spiralled out of control before exploding in a rain of heat and light. The cavern quaked and the children screamed. Large swaths of the rat horde vaporised in an instant.
The faediaga eldress was forced to back away, visibly wounded. Those explosions were equivalent to the full-powered might of a sky grade [Manna Burst] spell. Even she could not take them head-on with her bare body.
All of this happened in a few seconds. Still, it bought enough time for the five remaining reconers to swallow their ancillary riogh hearts whole. 
They would not slowly assimilate as Galina did. They did not need command over the aspects etched into the devices. All they needed was the manna.
And manna, they would get.
Reconer Galina saw a group of dhionne led by five oceanic realm Earthloch shamans rush out from the passageway behind their targets after clearing away waves of mutant plague rats. The Faediaga roars from the corridors also neared rapidly. Undoubtedly, reinforcement was also coming from other entrances. The gheistrum outbreaks would not hold them back for long. This was the den of the Earthloch elders after all.
But oceanic realmers would be far from enough.
Deep and berserk, the manna from the ancillary riogh-hearts pulsed forth. Each no weaker than the Faediaga Eldress in intensity. 
Ancillary riogh hearts were expensive. Tens of high oceanic gheist cores and shards of manna-riogh hearts went into each, along with a single sky realm gheist core. They did not disappoint.
Their foes recoiled, then regrouped. They eyed the bulging, abominate forms of the five assimilated reconers warily.
Her comrades could not hold this state for long. They jumped at the faediaga eldress and grappled her onto the ground. Claws screeched and spells flared. One reconer, the healer of their team, lost her legs immediately before being thrown back with a lash of the faediaga eldress’s tail.
She got up after coughing out blood and innards, then jumped in again as her limbs regenerated faster than eye-blinks. Like leeches in a quagmire, they fought the faediaga eldress without regard to their lives to stop her from interrupting their leader.
Reconer Galina looked down at her hand. Most of the orb had turned into opaque specks of manna, as had her own body under her Reconer garbs. She inched closer to the gateway behind her, grasping its manna with her newfound powers.
Soon, it would be her turn to act.
******
“Impossible!” Alorakana said in fear. “H-How could they just break through the sky realm like it is nothing?! Even supreme talents can’t do that this nonchalantly. What… what manner of cursed dhionne sorcery is this?!”
Elrhain was speechless, listening to a bona fide witch complain about sorcery. But her worries were not unfounded.
“I’m guessing it’s a temporary boost. Whatever the attackers ate looked similar to the thing in the woman in white’s hand. But why is the leader taking so long to do the same thing….” He mused aloud. “Unless she isn’t.”
It was a relief when Shaman Maeog along with a few more faces he didn’t recognise jumped into the fray. Tudor too joined them to reinforce Cyra, an elderly woman taking over his task.
The five ‘pseudo’ sky realmers packed a punch, as evident from Maeog and Tudor’s grunts. They no longer cast spells or attacked with their totems, going for brute force with beastly growls. Yet the intelligent shine in their eyes remained, the five successfully locking down Cyra and the Earthloch cultivators.
Maeog swung around his hammer-like staff and bashed one attacker away. The attacker’s chest caved in and he coughed out blood and pus. But his wounds healed in the blink of an eye, and before Maeog could jump back, the attacker grabbed his sword and threw the old man like a sling.
He crashed onto a half smashed boulder, smashing it completely this time. Dust rose like a smokescreen, and from inside, a truck-sized ball of ice flew out, hitting the attacker square in the face. It did little damage.
Shaman Maeog chanted a spell and the ice ball unfolded into a massive snake twenty meters long and two across. Other shamans including Tudor and the old woman also summoned such… beast companions?
「They look like the spirits we met on the night of the blessings.」Agwyn noted. 「Spiritform Totemic Arts. The specialty of our Earthlochian shamans.」
The new additions brought in a magnitude more destructive power. The cavern was all but ruined, with the mural pillars and rocky outcrops smashed to bits. It quaked every time another spell from a shaman clashed with the berserk punch of an attacker, the surroundings neigh unrecognisable from what it had been just a few minutes ago. Not to mention all the rat corpses lying around, the burnt smell of rotten minced meat permeating in the air.
“I-It’s not gonna collapse, is it?” Agwyn asked the old shamaness. The little girl winced as gravel fell from the ceiling onto their barrier. 
“The caves aren’t so shoddy, deary. It’s been reinforced with manna for hundreds of thousands of cycles.” The old woman spoke as she continued to put manna in the barrier. “The gravel falling is only the loose rocks. You don’t have to worry. Besides,”
Even strained, her toothless grin spoke of her confidence.
“The Faediaga are here.”
As she finished, familiar torrents of water drilled into the cavern from every entrance. They were like Cyra in her watery form, if not as intense. But the torrents raged, blood from the gheistrums they had slain mixed with the water like whirlpools of red.
Each torrent swivelled around the attackers. Some formed into draconic beasts, and others remained as water seeking to bind the pseudo sky realmers in prisons.
“Eldress!” One faediaga with a broken crown roared. It was a maiden by her voice, and her voice was urgent.
“Naira, just in time!” Cyra roared back gleefully. “Only half of you came? Where are the rest?” She asked, addressing the few dozen faediaga before sending a beam of blue manna in the woman in white’s direction.
One attacker blocked the spell in its path with a pained grunt, his hand shattering into ice. But the lost limb grew back just as fast.
“Eldress, gheistrum rife every cavern. It’s the same in the underground sanctuary. The elderly are looking after the youngests, while the others fend the rampant gheists along with Earthloch cultivators.”
“T-The sanctuary?” Cyra stammered, then roared with renewed fury. “Not only do you go after my daughter, but my flock too?!”
Her manna rose higher, and the cavern quacked coarser. As if to match her rage, the five fake sky realmers also rushed in with wanton ferocity as if physical wounds were a disposable resource.
No matter what Cyra and the others did, they could not get closer to the woman in white.
“This is bad.” Elrhain quipped. “They went from offensive to defensive without hesitation. H-Hey, why are we staying here in the first place? Can’t we retreat?”
“Amazing idea!” Alorakana cheered while Cadfael scoffed.
“No can do deary.” The old shamaness said. “The cavern on the other side crawl with these rats. They fill everywhere they breathe with a lake’s worth of poison clouds. I can’t guarantee that oceanic level safeguards can defend against that, while only the Chieftainess can move this barrier. The gheistrum hordes stamped up from the Dim Subterranean Abyss too. It’s like every manna-riogh under the Elder’s rest went crazy all at once. How… intriguing, what did the Impelakty discover I wonder….”
“That’s not the point! The slug woman could’ve just taken all us children and escaped after realising she couldn’t kill the woman in white. She wouldn’t have gotten injured because of those explosions! So why do we have to play by their games? Their target is obviously us two. Escaping would’ve forced the assassins to chase. But look at them! They are solid but definitely not as fast as Cyra flying at full speed in her watery form.… wait…. Where’s the woman in white?” Elrhain flailed his chubby arms up and down while Agwyn nodded along, hugging him tightly. He almost missed the woman in white dissolving into a starry cloud while her armour and spears dropped with clangs. The cloud shimmered for a second and entered the portal the attackers came from.
“Huh, she escaped alone?” His voice had not left his mouth when the remaining five attackers screamed with a beastly sonic boom. They forwent all defences, not caring for the claws and fangs tearing apart their flesh.
Their manna rose, then concentrated into points of power around their hearts.
“Stay back! They will oblate their Marrow cores!” Cyra shouted and the Earthlochian cultivators and Faediaga scampered to the periphery of the cavern. Their lifesaving spells rose in defence to shield the coming blast.
Cyra enveloped the children with her serpentine body, squeezing inside the barrier. Then she along with Maeog, Tudor, the old shamaness and even Alorakana frantically fed all their remaining manna into it.
All this happened in just a few heartbeats. After that, all Elrhain saw was white.
His ears rang and his eyes stung with pain.
He felt a hand on his shoulder. 
Someone tugged his clothes.
He flew. Something deep inside him snapped, and agony a million times worse than the pain from the blast overwhelmed his soul. The last thing he heard was a blood-curling scream of a little girl he could no longer feel with his mind.









Chapter 76 - Thus Concludes the Astral Song

Reconer Galina had no regret even as she watched her body wither away. At her feet lay the unmoving form of the Siaglas boy. In front, the twisted maw of the faediaga eldress.
But the enraged and now childless beast passed through her body as though Galina was a mirage. This was [Spectral Sacrifice].
The Impelakt had foreseen that pure destructive power, even at the sky realmer level, could not break through the Earthloch defences. So he had granted her this spell that morphed her body into an astral form that no one could touch or harm along with a plan to eliminate the targets without fail. Galina carried it out spectacularly.
It took an ancillary riogh hearts worth of 'Time,' 'Soul,' and 'Space' aspected manna embedded in the device and the gateway behind her to cast the spell. Still, all was worth it for the Impelakt's will. Since the life of eight competent reconers was this mission's actual price.
As her last moments drew nearer, Galina let her mind wander. The amount of manna inside an ancillary riogh heart, if forcefully assimilated, could elevate oceanic to sky temporarily. Her comrades, blessed be their valiant souls, blew up five sky realmer marrow cores to send all Earthlochian forces retreating.
In those few breaths when the faediaga and shamans thought they were all but safe under the protection of the barriers, Galina made her move.
The reconer was now a being of the astral planes. The light and heat from the physical explosion did not impede reconer Galina like they did everyone else. She used the spell to open gateways to open a smaller one right under the curled-up faediaga, connecting it to the gateway behind her. In the process, she had sacrificed all but a few earthen spells worth of manna from her reserves. 
Astral beings lived on manna to exist in the material world. This act had guaranteed Galina's death, with only half a minute to live.
She pushed her hand inside the gateway, then grabbed the Siaglas boy right under the faediaga's nose with the earthen level [Manna Hands] spell and pulled.
The tether connecting the boy to the girl stretched taught as the boy travelled through the gateway to fall at her feet before snapping beautifully right in front of Galina's [Astral Sight].
The Impelakt's words held true. Distance, was the most fatal nemesis to tethered souls. Galina and the dying boy were less than fifty meters away from the faediaga who only now came to her senses. She could traverse that in a heartbeat. Yet she was too late.
The tethers from the two children danced in the air their final rhythms of life, like headless snakes yet alive. Their manna leaked like a punctured heart.
Screams rose in anguish as the Earthlochians cried.
"Ahhhhhhhhhhhhh!"
"What did you do?!"
"Gwynnie, Rhainy, nooooo!"
"Answer me kiddo. Don't you dare close your eyes! Don't you dare!!!!"
"…why?"
Reconer Galina could not discern who asked what. But… why indeed?
She had only followed the will of the Impelakt, as should every soul on this disc.
She did her duty, and the Impelakt would reward her family heavily for it. They would be made Reanakts from Onthoakts and given glory for millennia to come.
Galina watched with content as the last visages of her astral form scattered. First her feet, knees, then pelvis.
The torso. Her arms. 
Her neck, lower jaws, nose….
But when only her eyes remained, it appeared. 
Reconer Galina screamed out in fury as the two broken tethers from the boy and girl snapped into place upon two inconspicuous blue crystals jutting out from the ruined cavern floor. But alas, she had not the mouth nor the vocal cords to make a sound.
She could only curse with her dying breath as the spirit-like being in the shape of a fuzzy fish gremlin observed everything with interest.
******
The white specks scattered before Cyra's eyes. The enemy vanquished like the rotten dogs of the Impelakty they were.
The faediaga eldress stood there, motionless.
"…..el…ss,"
Her mind was a blank void. Her body ached from the heat of the blast and her heart pained like torn memories. 
"…if…ne..."
Someone called out to her, but the words did not reach her.
No. They actually did. But Cyra’s mind could not parse the meaning.
She turned around to see a small dhionne, maybe up to her naval, frantically waving his muscled arms. He was gathering manna for a ritual of some sort. Why though?
"…D…SS."
The man was tiny but looked too old to be a child. 
'Oh. Right. That's Tudor Arente Earthloch…'
Cyra's gaze wandered behind, noticing a group of children huddled around something. They cried, with the youngest three wailing madly in hysteria. The older children sobbed while the winged boy was on his knees, muttering incomprehensibly.
The child with the shadows stood at the side, collapsed upon a cavern rock with a deathly pale face.
'Huh…?'
The children surrounded a girl. She was a tiny little girl, no taller than a fish gremlin, with cute buns on her head. Cyra remembered her… she was so active yesterday, crying with unending energy when Cyra forbade her from visiting any more settlements.
An old woman, along with three more shamans Cyra recognized, had enveloped the… girl… in films of manna. But the manna didn't reach the still body. It was repelled by a violent force.
The girl lay in between blue crystals, the type that could be found anywhere under the loch Sagathan Temple. They had weak manna, with no other use than to serve as lamps along the dim caverns. Break them away and they grew back like mushrooms. Yet they weren't edible, so mushrooms were more valuable.
However, the manna in those crystals now swirled with intent. Each speck of light elongated until they covered the fallen girl head to toe. Like a barrier. Or a prison.
So…. Why was the girl lying there doing nothing? It could be dangerous. Well, knowing Agwyn, she was probably just curious.
Cyra stopped. Agwyn?
".. … . don't do this… I beg you, I-I…."
Someone let out a harrowed cry. Cyra's line of vision suddenly lowered and the tiny dhionne man turned into a giant. Cyra thought for a second before realizing she had crumpled down into a puddle of water.
The crying wails rang in her ears louder. The voice was strangely familiar.
'I swear I know... Wait… what… happened over there?'
Cyra then moved her gaze away, looking at where the attacker had disintegrated into manna.
"Gwyn… Gwyn………. … hic… Mommy was wrong…." The cries continued. Cyra was quickly growing annoyed by it. They made her sad. Or was it the sadness that made her cry?
Wait, that's ridiculous. Why would Cyra be crying?
Cyra shook her puddly body and focused on the matter at hand. Why had the Impelakty reconers attacked…
'Attack who?'
Cyra slithered forward. For some reason, she could not take her dhionne or faediaga form. 
'Am I wounded? Where? Why would anyone hurt me?'
Ignoring the calls of her flock and Tudor Arente Earthloch, Cyra moved until she saw another fallen dhionne child. 
There was something strange going on. Why were there so many sleeping children? The underground cavern was no place to take a nap.
"…. Rhain?" She spoke. Her voice came out like shattered ice, quivering and cold. Wait, that really was her, wasn't it? The crying voice.
"Rhain… why… aaaaaaahhhhhhh."
It certainly sounded like her. But then, why was she crying?
Cyra's mind throbbed, but she ignored the pain. Ignoring sad things was the best way to not be sad.
An elderly shaman sat beside the boy with a palm over his chest. A soft glow permeated the old man's hands, then a healing spell materialized.
The glob of green manna tried to sink into the boy's chest, but it was scattered away by a familiar prison created by those blue crystals. Cyra could see the sweat dripping down from the old man's wrinkled temples as he kept trying.
'Why is he?… how….'
"ELDRESS!!!!!" Cyra snapped awake at Naira's call.
"….Gwyn? Where's Gwyn?"
"She lives," Naira spoke, her sapphire eyes strained with worry. "She is not gone to us. She… lives."
"… Rhain?"
"… Eldress. The boy is alive too… Eldress, we need you. Strange magic from the Sagathan lamps imprisons them. We-"
Naira stopped. "There is something wrong with your manna. The explosion from the reconers' self-oblation!" The younger faediaga realized.
Naira immediately brought over other members of her flock. An older faediaga examined Cyra's manna. The eldress was now a wailing puddle of water and gave no resistance. 
"The Eldress had shielded a good half of the blast with her bare body. Before that, she had taken direct discharges from those… those manna riogh heart-like devices. The rampant aspects have muddled her totemic soul. She will be back soon." The old faediaga said.
Cyra understood none of that. She suddenly missed someone. Two someones. A girl, a boy. She was afraid she would never meet them again.
"Give them back!" She shouted, seeing a fish gremlin pick up her son and daughter. They weren't snacks!
"GIVE THEM BACK!" she screamed, chasing after the rogue ahnmigheist that looked like a spirit. But the accursed puffball ran through a nearby wall like a ghost while holding up the two children with its button-like paws.
Tudor, Shaman Maeog, and everyone else first looked on with confusion, not realizing what had just occurred. It took only a single heartbeat for the ghost-like fish gremlin to materialize, kidnap their lieges from within that unbreakable prison, and warble off without a care in the world.
"GIVE.THEM.BACK!!!!" Cyra crashed into the wall, finally in her faediaga form. But behind the collapsed stone rubble lay even more layers of stone and earth, with the fish gremlin nowhere in sight.
